---
title: About viewing project control transactions in Microsoft Excel
TOCTitle: About viewing project control transactions in Microsoft Excel
ms:assetid: 8683d3d3-a005-4041-9189-5675c0ddb21f
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg213180(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36811415
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Excel
- invoice control
- cash flow
- cost control
- export transaction
- hour utilization
- project control
- project statement
---

# About viewing project control transactions in Microsoft Excel [AX 2012]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

You can use the project control system and the Export to Excel function in Microsoft Dynamics AX to monitor financial information for your projects. To do this, you create multidimensional PivotTable reports in Microsoft Excel from the data that is calculated in project control.

You can access project control from the following forms:

  - **Project details**

  - **Project contract details**

  - **Worker**

In the **Projects** form and **Project contracts** form, the **Control** tab on the **Action Pane** contains the options that you can select to view detailed project information. In the **Worker** form, the options are available on the **Action Pane**, on the **Project management** tab, in the **Project control** group.

The following options are available:

  - **Project statements** – Project statements provide a quick financial snapshot of a project. They provide insight into profit and loss; work in process; consumption of hours, expenses and items; invoiced amounts; and hourly rates. The information that is calculated compares the original budgeted transaction amounts for the project with the actual transaction amounts.

  - **Invoice control** – Invoice control can help you monitor the invoicing for a project. The information that is calculated provides an overview of the amounts that have been invoiced, the amounts that remain to be invoiced, and the amounts that are to be invoiced that exceed the project quotation amount.

  - **Hour utilization** – Hour utilization can help you monitor the hours that are spent on a project. The information that is calculated provides the hour utilization rate for a project displayed as a percentage. This information shows how the hours that are allocated to the project are being used. The efficiency rate is also displayed as a percentage. This rate indicates how efficiently your company is using hours on the project.

  - **Cash flow** – Cash flow can help you monitor the cash that you have both received and paid on a project, and the cash that you expect to receive and pay in the future. To calculate cash flow, the budget that you created before the project began is compared with the actual amount of money that has been received and spent.

  - **Cost control** – Cost control can help you monitor the costs that are incurred on a project. The information that is calculated compares actual costs for a project to the total budget that you originally created.

## Create a PivotTable report from a project control form

1.  In a project control form, perform a calculation, and then click **Export to Microsoft Excel**.

2.  In the **File name** field, enter the file name and location.

3.  In the **Measurements** group, select the check box of each type of measurement that you want to include in the PivotTable report. These measurements are the data fields that are generated by the project control form.

4.  Add the dimensions that you want to use in the PivotTable report to the **Selected dimensions** list, and then use the **Up** and **Down** buttons to set them in the order in which you want them to be displayed. The dimensions vary according to the type of project control form that you are using, but will typically include items such as project, category, worker, item, transaction type, or project date.

5.  Use the fields in the **Layout - rows** and **Layout - columns** groups to configure the layout of the report.

6.  Click **OK**.

## See also

[Project statements (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa552521\(v=ax.60\))

[Invoice control (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa618760\(v=ax.60\))

[Cost control (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh242864\(v=ax.60\))

[Utilization hours (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh208657\(v=ax.60\))

[Cash flow (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh242606\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

