---
title: About Enterprise Portal (Enterprise Portal)
TOCTitle: About Enterprise Portal
ms:assetid: 17cbc7d9-f782-43d6-920c-ca056a0a2ed8
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh242153(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36056090
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- default
- port
- EP
- web
- enterprise portal
- self service
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# About Enterprise Portal (Enterprise Portal) 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Microsoft Dynamics AX provides a set of Web sites that give you access to data. You can also participate in business processes by using Web-based forms. These sites are collectively called Enterprise Portal for Microsoft Dynamics AX.

Enterprise Portal can be configured to display role-specific home pages that are called *Role Centers*. Role Centers provide an overview of information that pertains to a user's job function in the business or organization. This information includes transaction data, alerts, links, and common tasks that are associated with the user's role in the company. Role Centers also include reports that are generated by Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services or Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services. Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 includes more than two dozen predefined Role Centers, which users can access from Enterprise Portal or the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

The information in this section of the Help describes how to use the system-wide features of Enterprise Portal. For information about how to use module-specific functionality, see the Help topics that are related to a specific module site.

## See also

[About Enterprise Portal Help](about-enterprise-portal-help.md)

[About Enterprise Portal accessibility](about-enterprise-portal-accessibility.md)

[About Enterprise Portal Browser requirements](about-enterprise-portal-browser-requirements.md)

  


