---
title: About unsent alerts
TOCTitle: About unsent alerts
ms:assetid: bfef101a-5ada-4ceb-8c29-9c3b082629a7
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Aa834432(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 46687567
author: Khairunj
ms.author: daxcpft
ms.date: 05/02/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# About unsent alerts 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

There are several reasons why you might not receive an alert that you expect. For example, the data changed before the alert was sent, or the batch processing system was stopped to prevent an excessive number of alerts from being sent to users.

## Data changes before the alert is generated

If you do not receive an alert that you expect, data may have changed before the event was processed, so that conditions no longer matched the alert rule. Therefore, when the event was processed, no alert was sent.

When a batch job is executed, it processes the logged events and matches actual data in the database with the rule conditions. However, if the data changed after the event was logged, certain conditions may no longer be met. In this case, no alerts are generated. For more information, see "Examine the risks of low batch frequency" under "Process batches for change-based events" in [About alert batch execution](about-alert-batch-execution.md).

## Alert rules are disregarded during data import

During data import, the processing of alerts can be turned off to prevent large numbers of alerts from being sent to users who have created alert rules. When alert generation is turned off, the data that is imported does not trigger any alerts, even if some of the existing rules match conditions of the imported data.

## Alerts are delayed

If the recurrence of batch processing is set to a low frequency, alerts that are based on rules that have a narrow time limit might be sent too late to be useful.

## Example

You have specified that you want to be alerted two days before a purchase order is due. If the batch job is run only every second day, you might actually receive the alert one day before the purchase order is due. Therefore, you do not have the two-day notice that you expected.

This situation also applies to due date alerts about due dates in the past. For example, you want to be alerted five days after a purchase order was due. If the batch job is run only every second day, you might actually receive the alert six days after the purchase order was due. For more information, see "Process batches for due date events" in [About alert batch execution](about-alert-batch-execution.md).

## Alert rules become obsolete and no alerts are sent

The rules for due date alerts can be set up to be somewhat flexible with regard to time limits. In other words, the due date alert rules can have a built-in time allowance to handle situations where batches are not run for some time. However, if the time allowance that is set up for the alert rules is exceeded, alerts become obsolete. Therefore, no alerts are sent. For more information, see "Set flexible due dates" under "Process batches for due date events" in [About alert batch execution](about-alert-batch-execution.md).

## The event queue is deleted

If the event queue is deleted before a batch job is executed, users who have active alert rules in the system do not receive the alerts that they expect. For more information, see "Delete the event queue" in [About alert batch execution](about-alert-batch-execution.md).

## Security settings have changed

If security settings change, a user may no longer have permission to access the data that forms the basis of an alert rule. In this case, no alerts that are generated by the rule are delivered to the user.

## See also

[About alert batch execution](about-alert-batch-execution.md)

[Set up alert batch execution](set-up-alert-batch-execution.md)

  


