---
title: Assign a rate and route to a load
TOCTitle: Assign a rate and route to a load
ms:assetid: 6f30172b-1fe3-4020-a16b-865ddec80f50
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Dn770232(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 62524899
ms.date: 06/25/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Assign a rate and route to a load [AX 2012]


This topic explains how to assign a rate and route to an inbound or outbound load.

## This task is part of a bigger process

This topic describes how to assign a rate and route to an inbound load and outbound load so that the rate can relate to other tasks in the transportation planning for loads. The tasks of assigning a rate and route to an inbound and outbound load are similar, the only differences are the origin of the load. An inbound load is generated by a purchase order or a transfer order, and an outbound load is generated by a sales order. In the **Load planning workbench** form, you select the sales order line, transfer order line, or purchase order line.

For an overview of these processes, see [Business process: Planning transportation for inbound loads](business-process-planning-transportation-for-inbound-loads.md) and [Business process: Planning and processing outbound loads for shipping](business-process-planning-and-processing-outbound-loads-for-shipping.md).

## Prerequisites

The following table shows the prerequisites that must be in place before you start.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Category</p></th>
<th><p>Prerequisite</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Related setup tasks</p></td>
<td><p>Create an inbound load or outbound load. For more information, see <a href="create-or-modify-an-inbound-load.md">Create or modify an inbound load</a> and <a href="create-or-modify-an-outbound-load.md">Create or modify an outbound load</a>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Assign a rate and route to a load

In the **Rate route workbench** form, you can get an overview of available rates and routes. If you want to use a specific carrier for a load, you can use manual rating.

To assign a rate and route to a load using the **Rate route workbench** form, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Transportation management** \> **Common** \> **Loads** \> **All loads**.

2.  Select a load, and then click **Load planning workbench**.

3.  On the **Supply and demand** FastTab, depending on the type of order that generated the load, select the **Sales lines**, **Transfer lines**, or **Purchase order lines** tab.

4.  On the **Loads** FastTab, select the load.

5.  Click **Rating and routing**, and then select **Rate route workbench** to find a rate and route for the load.

6.  In the **Rate route workbench** form, click one of the following buttons.
    
    <table>
    <colgroup>
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    </colgroup>
    <thead>
    <tr class="header">
    <th><p>Button</p></th>
    <th><p>Description</p></th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>Rate</strong></p></td>
    <td><p>View the least expensive rate only.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><p><strong>Rate shop</strong></p></td>
    <td><p>View all the rates and routes that are available.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>Route</strong></p></td>
    <td><p>View routes only.</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><p><strong>Route with rate</strong></p></td>
    <td><p>View available routes, including the rate for each route.</p></td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>


To manually assign a rate and route to a load, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Transportation management** \> **Common** \> **Loads** \> **All loads**.

2.  Follow the guidelines to assign a rate and route to a load using the **Rate route workbench** form.

3.  On the **Loads** FastTab, in the **Load planning workbench** form, select the load.

4.  On the load line, in the **Shipping carrier** field, select a shipping carrier.

5.  Click **Rating and routing**, and then select **Manual rating**. The **Route rate detail** form opens with rate and route information that is specific to the carrier that you selected for the load.

6.  On the **Loads** FastTab, select the load.

## Next step

[Consolidate multiple shipments into a load](consolidate-multiple-shipments-into-a-load.md)

## Technical information for system administrators

If you don't have access to the pages that are used to complete this task, contact your system administrator and provide the information that is shown in the following table.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Category</p></th>
<th><p>Prerequisite</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Configuration keys</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Click <strong>System administration</strong> &gt; <strong>Setup</strong> &gt; <strong>Licensing</strong> &gt; <strong>License configuration</strong>. Expand the <strong>Trade</strong> license key, and select the <strong>Warehouse and Transportation management</strong> configuration key.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

