---
title: (BEL) Report from Isabel payments report (VendPaymRefReport_BE)
TOCTitle: (BEL) Report from Isabel payments report (VendPaymRefReport_BE)
ms:assetid: 7cdc0e85-af38-4665-8451-2e6cc58e31a4
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Hh527153(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 37823204
author: tonyafehr
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- SSRS_Reports.Reports.VendPaymRefReport_BE
- (BEL)
- Isabel payments report
- Report from Isabel payments report
- VendPaymRefReport_BE
---

# (BEL) Report from Isabel payments report (VendPaymRefReport\_BE) 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

The **Report from Isabel payments** report is generated when you make a payment by using the **Isabel (be)** export file format. This report displays only the details of payments that are generated by using the **Isabel (be)** export file format. This report is typically used by accounts payable payments clerks, chief financial officers, accounting managers, accounting supervisors, financial controllers, accounts payable centralized payments clerks, accounts payable payments clerks, and accountants for information about pending payments to vendors.

This report is generated only if the **Period** field is not set to **Invoice** and the **Payment ID is mandatory** option is not selected for the corresponding method of payment. These fields are available in the **Methods of payment - vendors** form.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>(BEL) This report is available only to legal entities whose primary address is in Belgium.</P>



## How to filter the data on this report

When you generate this report, the following default parameters are displayed. You can use these parameters to filter the data that will be displayed on the report. For more information, see [Filter the data on a report](filter-the-data-on-a-report.md).

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Vendor account</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The unique identifier for a vendor.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## How to work with reports

The following topics explain how to print a report and how to filter and sort the data on a report.

  - [Print or email a report](print-or-email-a-report.md)

  - [Filter the data on a report](filter-the-data-on-a-report.md)

  - [Sort the data on a report](sort-the-data-on-a-report.md)

## Details of this report

The following table explains where to find the report in the Application Object Tree (AOT) and how to navigate to the report in the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Detail</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Name of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>VendPaymRefReport_BE</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Location of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>SSRS Reports\Reports\VendPaymRefReport_BE</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Menu item of the report</p></td>
<td><p>VendPaymRefReport_BE</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Navigation to the report</p></td>
<td><p>Click <strong>Accounts payable</strong> &gt; <strong>Journals</strong> &gt; <strong>Payments</strong> &gt; <strong>Payment journal</strong>. Click <strong>Lines</strong>. In the <strong>Journal voucher</strong> form, click <strong>Functions</strong> &gt; <strong>Generate payments</strong>. In the <strong>Generate payments</strong> form, enter the required details, and then click <strong>OK</strong>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Where the data in this report comes from

The data on this report comes from the following sources:

  - VendTmpPaymRef\_BE table
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>To find out where the data in the temp table comes from, view the cross-references for the VendPaymRefReportDP_BE.processReport class.</P>



If you are a developer, you can learn more about where the data on a report comes from by using the following procedure.

1.  Open the AOT.

2.  Locate the report in the **SSRS Reports**\\**Reports** node.

3.  Right-click the report and click **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Using (instant view)**.

## See also

[Generate payments - vendor (class form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/aa586980\(v=ax.60\))

[Key tasks: Vendor payments and settlements](key-tasks-vendor-payments-and-settlements.md)

  


