---
title: (BRA) Post a payment with the check method of payment
TOCTitle: (BRA) Post a payment with the check method of payment
ms:assetid: a2421cd0-b20d-4656-b20e-903c74a9e20c
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/JJ923201(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 53382672
author: Khairunj
ms.author: daxcpft
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Brazil
---

# (BRA) Post a payment with the check method of payment 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

Use this procedure to post a payment by using a method of payment for checks.

All the payment lines in the payment journal are grouped by vendor or bank, based on the posting level that you select for the method of payment in the **Posting level** field in the **Methods of payment - vendors** form. For more information, see [(BRA) Set up a check or Bordero method of payment for a vendor](bra-set-up-a-check-or-bordero-method-of-payment-for-a-vendor.md). To post and print one check for the payment lines that are grouped for a vendor or a bank, all the payment lines must have the same vendor or bank, payment currency, method of payment, and payment date. All the payment lines that are grouped for the vendor or the bank are updated with the same check number.

1.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Journals** \> **Payments** \> **Payment journal**.

2.  Select or create a payment journal, and then click **Lines** to open the **Journal voucher** form.

3.  Select or create a journal line. For more information, see [Key tasks: Vendor payments and settlements](key-tasks-vendor-payments-and-settlements.md).
    
    Alternatively, you can click **Functions** \> **Settlement** to open the **Settle open transactions** form, where you can select a vendor invoice line to settle.

4.  In the **Journal voucher** form, in the **Method of payment** field, select the method of payment for checks.

5.  Click **Functions**, and then click **Generate payments** to open the **Generate payments** form.

6.  In the **Payment method** field, select the method of payment for checks.

7.  In the **Bank account** field, select the bank account.

8.  Click **OK** to generate the checks.

9.  Close the form.

10. In the **Payment journal** form, click **Post**, and then click **Post** to post the payment journal.

In the **Checks** form, you can view the list of vendor payments that are generated by using the method of payment for checks.

## See also

[(BRA) Methods of payment - vendors (modified form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj923217\(v=ax.60\))

[(BRA) Set up a custom check layout for a bank](bra-set-up-a-custom-check-layout-for-a-bank.md)

[(BRA) About check payments and Bordero payments](bra-about-check-payments-and-bordero-payments.md)

[(BRA) Journal voucher - Vendor payment journal (modified form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj933534\(v=ax.60\))

[Check (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/aa588011\(v=ax.60\))

  


