---
title: (BRA) Set up an electronic payment
TOCTitle: (BRA) Set up an electronic payment
ms:assetid: c2810a11-a6c5-4906-a93a-4eda0ef3cab4
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/JJ730977(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49675207
author: Khairunj
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Set up bank folders
- Set up document types
- Set up instruction codes
- Set up the remittance occurrence codes
- Set up the return occurrence codes
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Brazil
---

# (BRA) Set up an electronic payment 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

You can set up electronic payments for vendors and customers. You can set up document types, instruction codes, bank folders, remittance occurrence codes, and return occurrence codes for a layout group. You can then use the layout group for the electronic file format that is used by your bank for export and return.

## Set up an export file and a return file layout

You must set up the configurator definition group, layout group, and methods of payment for customers and vendors before you set up electronic payments for export and return. To set up an export file and return file layouts, follow these steps.

1.  Use the **Configurator definition groups** form to set up a configurator definition group for export files and return files. You can create a configurator definition based on a predefined query, or you can create a configurator definition group in the Definition Group Wizard. For more information, see [(BRA) Set up the configurator definition group](bra-set-up-the-configurator-definition-group.md).

2.  Use the **Configurator layout groups** form to set up a configurator layout group for export and return files, and then attach a configurator definition group to the layout group. For more information, see [(BRA) Set up the configurator layout group](bra-set-up-the-configurator-layout-group.md)

3.  Use the **Methods of payment - vendors** or **Methods of payment - customers** form to set up electronic methods of payment for vendors or customers. For more information, see [(BRA) Set up an electronic method of payment](bra-set-up-an-electronic-method-of-payment.md).

## Set up document types

Use this procedure to set up document types for a layout group that is used by your bank for remittance and return. For more information, see [(BRA) Document types (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj730975\(v=ax.60\)).

1.  Click **Cash and bank management** \> **Setup** \> **Electronic payment** \> **Document types**.

2.  Create a document type.

3.  In the **Layout group**, select a layout group to set up a document type for.

4.  In the **Document type** field, enter a unique identification code for the document type to associate the code with the selected layout group. The code can be up to two alphanumeric characters long.

5.  In the **Description** field, enter a description for the document type.

## Set up instruction codes

Use this procedure to define the instruction codes for the selected layout group. For more information, see [(BRA) Instructions (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj730971\(v=ax.60\)).

1.  Click **Cash and bank management** \> **Setup** \> **Electronic payment** \> **Instructions**.

2.  Create an instruction code.

3.  In the **Layout group** field, select a layout group to define the instruction code for.

4.  In the **Instruction** field, enter a unique code for the instruction that the bank uses to receive the electronic payment information. The code can be up to two alphanumeric characters long.

5.  In the **Description** field, enter a description for the instruction code.

6.  In the **Quantity** field, enter the number of days for which the instruction code is valid.

## Set up bank folders

Use this procedure to set up bank folders for a layout group. When you make an electronic payment, the invoice that is generated by using the selected layout group is placed in this folder. For more information, see [(BRA) Bank folders (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj730969\(v=ax.60\)).

1.  Click **Cash and bank management** \> **Setup** \> **Electronic payment** \> **Bank folders**.

2.  Create a bank folder.

3.  In the **Layout group** field, select a layout group to set up the bank folder for.

4.  In the **Bank folder** field, enter the name of the folder where the invoice is placed for payment. The folder name can be up to three alphanumeric characters long.

5.  In the **Description** field, enter a description for the bank folder.

6.  In the **Bank folder code** field, enter a unique code for the folder that is selected in the **Bank folder** field. You can enter only one alphanumeric character for the code.

## Set up the remittance occurrence codes

Use this procedure to define the relationship between the remittance occurrence codes that are used by the bank and the remittance occurrence codes that are available in Microsoft Dynamics AX for a layout group. You can use only the remittance occurrence code **00** to request a payment. For more information, see [(BRA) Remittance occurrence codes (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj730970\(v=ax.60\)).

1.  Click **Cash and bank management** \> **Setup** \> **Electronic payment** \> **Remittance occurrence codes**.

2.  In the **Layout group** field, select a layout group to define the remittance occurrence code for.

3.  In the **Layout remittance occurrence code** field, enter the remittance occurrence code that is used by the bank for the selected layout group. The code can be up to three alphanumeric characters long.

4.  In the **Description** field, enter a description for the selected layout remittance occurrence code.

5.  In the **Remittance occurrence code** field, select the remittance occurrence code in Microsoft Dynamics AX that corresponds to the bank remittance occurrence code. The **Description** field is updated based on the code that you select. The following table contains the predefined remittance occurrence codes and their descriptions.
    
    <table>
    <colgroup>
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    </colgroup>
    <thead>
    <tr class="header">
    <th><p>Code</p></th>
    <th><p>Description</p></th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>00</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Sent</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><p><strong>02</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Return requested</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>03</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Due date change</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>


## Set up the return occurrence codes

Use this procedure to define a relationship between the return occurrence codes that are used by the bank and the return occurrence codes that are available in Microsoft Dynamics AX for a layout group. For more information, see [(BRA) Return occurrence codes (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj730966\(v=ax.60\)).

1.  Click **Cash and bank management** \> **Setup** \> **Electronic payment** \> **Return occurrence codes**.

2.  In the **Layout group** field, select a layout group to define the return occurrence code for.

3.  In the **Layout return occurrence code** field, enter the return occurrence code that is used by the bank for the selected layout group. The code can be up to two alphanumeric characters long.

4.  In the **Description** field, enter a description for the selected bank return occurrence code.

5.  In the **Return occurrence code** field, select the return occurrence code in Microsoft Dynamics AX that corresponds to the bank return occurrence code. The **Description** field is updated based on the code that you select. The following table contains the predefined return occurrence codes and their descriptions.
    
    <table>
    <colgroup>
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    <col style="width: 50%" />
    </colgroup>
    <thead>
    <tr class="header">
    <th><p>Code</p></th>
    <th><p>Description</p></th>
    </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>01</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Confirmed</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><p><strong>02</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Paid</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="odd">
    <td><p><strong>03</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Rejected</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr class="even">
    <td><p><strong>04</strong></p></td>
    <td><p><strong>Returned to company</strong></p></td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
    </table>


## See also

[(BRA) About the configurator](bra-about-the-configurator.md)

[(BRA) Set up an electronic payment process for a complex file structure](bra-set-up-an-electronic-payment-process-for-a-complex-file-structure.md)

[(BRA) Process electronic payment remittances](bra-process-electronic-payment-remittances.md)

[(BRA) Process electronic payment returns](bra-process-electronic-payment-returns.md)

  


