---
title: (BRA) About fiscal documents and the fiscal document framework
TOCTitle: (BRA) About fiscal documents and the fiscal document framework
ms:assetid: dc0a3685-3770-472b-823a-3210ecac339a
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/JJ663949(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49384539
author: Khairunj
ms.author: daxcpft
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- BR - 00009
- BR - 00010
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Brazil
---

# (BRA) About fiscal documents and the fiscal document framework 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

A fiscal document is a legal document that registers the transfer of ownership of an item or service that is provided by a fiscal establishment (issuer) to a person or another fiscal establishment (customer, vendor, subsidiary, or branch). A fiscal document is used to register taxes.

Fiscal documents are issued and received by each fiscal establishment for all transactions, including sales, purchases, tax adjustments, and item or asset transfers.

Fiscal documents can be generated by using the following formats:

  - Printed fiscal document – The fiscal document is printed on paper.

  - Electronic fiscal document – A digital fiscal document is issued and received in an electronic format. An electronic fiscal document can be a federal electronic fiscal document (NF-e), which is generated for items and reported at the state or federal level, or it can be a municipal NF-e, which is generated for services and reported at the municipal level.

All fiscal documents that are issued or received by a fiscal establishment must be reported at the federal, state, or municipal authority level. The fiscal documents must be reported in specific formats, such as Sistema Público de Escrituração Digital (SPED) fiscal or fiscal books, SPED Programa de Integração Social/Contribuição para o financiamente da securidade social (SPED PIS/COFINS), or Sistema Integrado de Informações sobre Operações Interestaduais com Mercadorias e Serviços (SINTEGRA).

The fiscal document framework is used to ensure that all of the posted fiscal documents conform to a specific structure, regardless of the process that is used to generate the fiscal document. You can review the posted fiscal documents on the **All fiscal documents** list page. You can review the fiscal document transactions, posted sales taxes, posted charges, referenced fiscal documents, and fiscal document texts for a posted fiscal document.

The fiscal document framework also ensures that all related information uses the correct format. Related information can include:

  - Relationships between fiscal documents and their source documents.

  - Fiscal document texts, referenced processes, fiscal references, invoices and installments, posted sales tax, and posted charges.

## See also

[(BRA) All fiscal documents (list page)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj710567\(v=ax.60\))

[(BRA) Fiscal document (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj710548\(v=ax.60\))

  


