---
title: 'Checklist: Configure Role Centers'
TOCTitle: 'Checklist: Configure Role Centers'
ms:assetid: 17abe92f-40df-4d5f-9f8d-4842c0a1d001
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Dd309607(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 35132561
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Checklist: Configure Role Centers 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Enterprise Portal for Microsoft Dynamics AX can be configured to display role-specific home pages that are called *Role Centers*. Role Centers provide an overview of information that pertains to a user's job function in the business or organization. This information includes transaction data, alerts, links, and common tasks that are associated with the user's role in the company. Role Centers also include reports that are generated by SQL Server Reporting Services or SQL Server Analysis Services. Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 includes more than two dozen predefined Role Centers, which users can access from Enterprise Portal or the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.


> [!TIP]
> <P>For more information about how employees can customize their Role Center pages, open the Help topics about Role Centers by using the Help menu either in the Microsoft Dynamics AX client or on a Role Center page.</P>



The following checklist can help you configure Role Centers.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Task</p></th>
<th><p>More information</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Verify that SQL Server Reporting Services and SQL Server Analysis Services are set up and configured.</p>
<p>If the SQL Server applications are not set up and configured, users cannot view reports on Role Center pages.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="reporting-in-microsoft-dynamics-ax.md">Reporting in Microsoft Dynamics AX</a> and <a href="analytics-in-microsoft-dynamics-ax.md">Analytics in Microsoft Dynamics AX</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Deploy Enterprise Portal and Role Centers.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="checklists-for-deploying-enterprise-portal-sites.md">Checklists for deploying Enterprise Portal sites</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Enable the default user profiles in Microsoft Dynamics AX.</p>
<p>A user profile is a set of default information for a specific role in an organization, such as the chief financial officer or accounting manager. User profiles determine the content that is displayed on Role Center pages.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="select-default-profiles-for-role-centers.md">Select default profiles for Role Centers</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Assign users to profiles.</p>
<p>When you assign a user to a profile, you specify the Role Center that is displayed when the user opens the Microsoft Dynamics AX client or an Enterprise Portal Web site.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="assign-users-to-role-center-profiles.md">Assign users to Role Center profiles</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Give users or groups permission to access the Enterprise Portal site in SharePoint.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="enable-users-to-access-enterprise-portal.md">Enable users to access Enterprise Portal</a></p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Configure Web parts for Role Centers.</p>
<p>You can import, export, or edit Cues and quick links for all users. You can also specify time periods for the Business Overview Web part.</p></td>
<td><p><a href="manage-role-center-web-parts.md">Manage Role Center Web Parts</a></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

