---
title: (CHN) Create a ledger account
TOCTitle: (CHN) Create a ledger account
ms:assetid: 62430f12-dc04-489c-b71f-834472619e60
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ664052(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49384639
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- CN - 00010
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: China (PRC)
---

# (CHN) Create a ledger account 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

Business enterprises can display accounts in a tree structure by setting up levels, the length, and control for the chart of accounts. Use the **Create a ledger account** form to complete the following tasks:

  - Create a root account.

  - Create sub accounts.

  - Copy sub accounts.

The **Create a ledger account** form is available only when the account number format is set up for the Chinese account tree hierarchy.

## Create a root account

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Chart of accounts** \> **Chart of accounts**.

2.  Create a new chart of accounts. For more information, see [(CHN) Set up the hierarchy structure for the main account](chn-set-up-the-hierarchy-structure-for-the-main-account.md).

3.  On the **Main accounts** FastTab, click **New** to open the **Create a ledger account** form.

4.  In the **Method** field, select **Create root account**.

5.  In the **Ledger account** field, enter the ledger account number. The account level is displayed in the **Level** field. For example, if the source account level is 1, its sub account level is 2. The account number is generated automatically for the sub account, depending on the source account level. Within the sub account level, you can modify the account number generated by the system.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>For the root account, the account level is always 1.</P>



6.  In the **Account name** field, enter the name of the ledger account.

7.  In the **Account type** field, select the type of account.

8.  Click **OK** to create a new account line with the specified details in the **Main accounts - chart of accounts: %1** form.

## Create sub accounts

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Chart of accounts** \> **Chart of accounts**.

2.  Create a new chart of accounts. For more information, see [(CHN) Set up the hierarchy structure for the main account](chn-set-up-the-hierarchy-structure-for-the-main-account.md).

3.  On the **Main accounts** FastTab, click **New** to open the **Create a ledger account** form.

4.  In the **Method** field, select **Create sub account**.

5.  In the **Source** field, select the source account under which the sub account must be created. The account level is displayed in the **Level** field.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>You can create sub accounts for all account levels except the last account level. The sub account level is always the next level below the source account level.</P>



6.  In the **Account name** field, enter the name of the ledger account.

7.  Click **OK** to create a new account line with the specified details in the **Main accounts - chart of accounts: %1** form.

## Copy sub accounts

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Chart of accounts** \> **Chart of accounts**.

2.  Create a new chart of accounts. For more information, see [(CHN) Set up the hierarchy structure for the main account](chn-set-up-the-hierarchy-structure-for-the-main-account.md).

3.  On the **Main accounts** FastTab, click **New** to open the **Create a ledger account** form.

4.  In the **Method** field, select **Copy**.

5.  In the **Source** field, select the source account from which the sub accounts are copied.

6.  In the **Destination** field, select the destination account to which the sub accounts are copied.

7.  Click **OK** to copy all of the sub accounts from the source account to the destination account.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>A source account must have at least one sub account. If the account number structures of sub accounts in the destination account and the source account are the same, a new sub account is generated under the destination account, and the sub accounts from the source account are copied to the new account.</P>



## See also

[(CHN) Create a ledger account (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj664086\(v=ax.60\))

[(CHN) Main account hierarchy (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj664039\(v=ax.60\))

[(CHN) Set up the hierarchy structure for the main account](chn-set-up-the-hierarchy-structure-for-the-main-account.md)

  


