---
title: Create route versions
TOCTitle: Create route versions
ms:assetid: 0f2a3dc7-3286-404b-888c-9eb894cd1ca8
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Aa496418(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36056018
author: Khairunj
ms.author: daxcpft
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- create route version
- route version
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# Create route versions 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

You can use the **Designer** form to create different versions of a production route because of variations in the production of an item or to provide additional production process control.

For example, if a small quantity of an item must be produced, it may be more economical to run it through a different route using machines with less capacity and that cost less to run. It could be more cost efficient to use the original route for large production orders that use high-capacity machines.

1.  Click **Product information management** \> **Common** \> **Released products**.

2.  On the Action Pane, click the **Engineer** tab.

3.  In the **BOM** group, click **Designer**.

4.  In the **Designer** form, select the BOM line on which to create a route.

5.  In the left pane, click the **Route version** icon.

6.  In the **Route versions** form, click **Create route** to open the **Create route** form, where you can create a new route and route version.

7.  Enter a descriptive name for the route.

8.  In the **Site** field, select the site to create the route for.

9.  Click **OK** to create the route and route version. Route numbers are system-generated by using number sequences.

10. Enter the dates that the route version is valid for.

11. Click **Approve** to approve the route version. The **Approve version** form opens.

12. In the **Approved by** lookup field, select the appropriate employee ID.

13. Select the **Approve route?** check box to verify approval of the route version.

14. Click **OK** to approve the route version.

15. Select the **Active** check box to open the route version and view it in the **Current route** section of the **BOM designer** form.

## See also

[About BOM designer functionality](about-bom-designer-functionality.md)

[Create and update production routes](create-and-update-production-routes.md)

  


