---
title: 'Deprecated: (BRA) Purchase and sales fiscal document manual entry'
TOCTitle: (BRA) Purchase and sales fiscal document manual entry
ms:assetid: fb311f75-e8b6-4094-9572-f1f8e5dcbea4
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Dn527269(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 59623397
author: Khairunj
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Deprecated: (BRA) Purchase and sales fiscal document manual entry 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

In Microsoft Dynamics AX 2009, manual entries for purchase and sales fiscal documents were added for fixed assets that were purchased before the implementation of Microsoft Dynamics AX. Manual entry fields were also added for fixed asset sales that were not generated by using a free text invoice. The information in these fields was used in the fiscal book integration for CIAP. The manual entry fields were removed in Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2.

## Overview

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Item</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Reason for deprecation</p></td>
<td><p>Microsoft Dynamics AX identifies invoices that are related to the purchase and sale of a fixed asset by using information in the corresponding purchase or sales process. Functionality for manual entry of fiscal document information was added for the fiscal book integration for CIAP. The fiscal book integration is deprecated in AX 2012 R2. Therefore, the manual entry fields on purchase and sales fiscal documents were also deprecated.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Replaced by another feature</p></td>
<td><p>Yes. The feature was replaced by the CIAP implementation as part of the Fiscal book solution in Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012. The Fiscal book solution lets users relate fiscal documents to a fixed asset after the regular purchase or sales process is completed.</p>
<p>For more information, see <a href="bra-about-fiscal-documents-and-the-fiscal-document-framework.md">(BRA) About fiscal documents and the fiscal document framework</a>.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Modules affected</p></td>
<td><p>Fixed assets</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Changes to installation</p></td>
<td><p>This change does not affect application installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Changes to upgrade</p></td>
<td><p>This change does not affect application upgrade.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  


