---
title: Enterprise Portal and Role Centers
TOCTitle: Enterprise Portal and Role Centers
ms:assetid: 29deb2fe-2d43-4ed0-b587-2600aaa479ce
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Gg751374(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 35132588
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Enterprise Portal Guide
---

# Enterprise Portal and Role Centers [AX 2012]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Microsoft Dynamics AX provides a set of web sites that give you access to data. On these sites, you can also participate in business processes by using web-based forms. These sites are collectively called Enterprise Portal for Microsoft Dynamics AX. Enterprise Portal requires one of the following SharePoint products.

  - Microsoft SharePoint Foundation 2010

  - Microsoft SharePoint Server 2010

  - Microsoft SharePoint Foundation 2013

  - Microsoft SharePoint Server 2013


> [!NOTE]
> <P>To create a Power View report that displays data from an analysis cube, you must install SharePoint Server 2010 or 2013.</P>



Enterprise Portal can be configured to display role-specific home pages that are called *Role Centers*. Role Centers provide an overview of information that pertains to a user's job function in the business or organization. This information includes transaction data, alerts, links, and common tasks that are associated with the user's role in the company. Role Centers also include reports that are generated by SQL Server Reporting Services or SQL Server Analysis Services. Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 includes more than two dozen predefined Role Centers, which users can access from Enterprise Portal or the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

The topics in this section provide information about Enterprise Portal and Role Centers.


> [!TIP]
> <P>To apply advanced criteria to your search for Help about Microsoft Dynamics AX, use the <A href="http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=247587%26xver=ax060">WebSearchAx</A> tool.</P>



[Getting started with Enterprise Portal and Role Centers](getting-started-with-enterprise-portal-and-role-centers.md)

[Enterprise Portal architecture](enterprise-portal-architecture.md)

[Deploy Enterprise Portal and Role Centers](deploy-enterprise-portal-and-role-centers.md)

[Enterprise Portal and Role Centers security and protection](enterprise-portal-and-role-centers-security-and-protection.md)

[Enterprise Portal and Role Centers operations](enterprise-portal-and-role-centers-operations.md)

[Enterprise Portal and Role Centers development](enterprise-portal-and-role-centers-development.md)

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

