---
title: (ESP) Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES) (VendOutPaymControl_ES)
TOCTitle: (ESP) Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES) (VendOutPaymControl_ES)
ms:assetid: 8533dac7-e408-4eb5-b344-1b9e944f323d
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh496449(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 37072031
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Print
- report
- SSRS_Reports.Reports.VendOutPaymControl_ES
- (ESP)
---

# (ESP) Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES) (VendOutPaymControl\_ES) 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

The **Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES)** report displays and prints the details of the vendor payments when you post a payment journal. The vendor payment files that are generated by using the **Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES)** remittance export format are included in this report. This report is typically used by accounts clerks, accountants, and accounting managers to maintain vendor payments.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>(ESP) This report is available only to legal entities whose primary address is in Spain.</P>



## How to filter the data on this report

When you generate this report, the following default parameters are displayed. You can use these parameters to filter the data that will be displayed on the report. For more information, see [Filter the data on a report](filter-the-data-on-a-report.md).

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>File name</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Select the file name and file path of the remittance file.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Order type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Select the order type from the following options:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Transfers</strong> – The remittance file includes vendor payments that are made by transfers.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Checks</strong> – The remittance file includes vendor payments that are made by checks.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Control report</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Select this check box to print a report that shows information about the transactions that are included in the remittance file.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## How to work with reports

The following topics explain how to print a report and how to filter and sort the data on a report.

  - [Print or email a report](print-or-email-a-report.md)

  - [Filter the data on a report](filter-the-data-on-a-report.md)

  - [Sort the data on a report](sort-the-data-on-a-report.md)

## Details of this report

The following table explains where to find the report in the Application Object Tree (AOT) and how to navigate to the report in the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Detail</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Name of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>VendOutPaymControl_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Location of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>SSRS Reports\Reports\VendOutPaymControl_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Menu item of the report</p></td>
<td><p>VendOutPaymControl_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Navigation to the report</p></td>
<td><p>Click <strong>Accounts payable</strong> &gt; <strong>Journals</strong> &gt; <strong>Promissory notes</strong> &gt; <strong>Remittance journal</strong>. Select a journal name, and then click <strong>Lines</strong>. In the <strong>Journal voucher</strong> form, select a transaction, and then click <strong>Functions</strong> &gt; <strong>Generate remittance</strong>. In the <strong>Remittance format</strong> field, select <strong>Remittance Format 34 AEB(ES)</strong>, and then click <strong>Dialog</strong>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Where the data in this report comes from

The data on this report comes from the following sources:

  - CustVendOutTmp table

  - TmpAccountSum table
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>To find out where the data in the temp table comes from, view the cross-references for the VendOutPaymControlDP.processReport class.</P>



If you are a developer, you can learn more about where the data on a report comes from by using the following procedure.

1.  Open the AOT.

2.  Locate the report in the **SSRS Reports**\\**Reports** node.

3.  Right-click the report and click **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Using (instant view)**.

  


