---
title: (ESP) Print promissory note report (BankPromissoryNote_ES)
TOCTitle: (ESP) Print promissory note report (BankPromissoryNote_ES)
ms:assetid: 217ddd0c-a7c8-490b-9cf8-d853bf235803
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh352238(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36687864
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- SSRS_Reports.Reports.BankPromissoryNote_ES
- (ESP)
- (ESP) Print promissory note report
- Print promissory note
---

# (ESP) Print promissory note report (BankPromissoryNote\_ES) [AX 2012]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

The **Print promissory note** report prints a list of promissory notes generated by legal entities operating in Spain, along with the promissory note details. This report is generated when posting a vendor payment journal. This report is typically used by credit managers and collections managers.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>(ESP) This report is available only to legal entities whose primary address is in Spain.</P>



## How to work with reports

The following topics explain how to print a report and how to filter and sort the data on a report.

  - [Print or email a report](print-or-email-a-report.md)

  - [Filter the data on a report](filter-the-data-on-a-report.md)

  - [Sort the data on a report](sort-the-data-on-a-report.md)

## Details of this report

The following table explains where to find the report in the Application Object Tree (AOT) and how to navigate to the report in the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Detail</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Name of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>BankPromissoryNote_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Location of report in the AOT</p></td>
<td><p>SSRS Reports\Reports\BankPromissoryNote_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Menu item of the report</p></td>
<td><p>BankPromissoryNote_ES</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Navigation to the report</p></td>
<td><p>Click <strong>Accounts payable</strong> &gt; <strong>Journals</strong> &gt; <strong>Payments</strong> &gt; <strong>Payment journal</strong>. Select a journal line, and then click <strong>Lines</strong>. In the <strong>Journal voucher</strong> form, click <strong>Functions</strong> &gt; <strong>Generate payments</strong>. In the <strong>Generate payments</strong> form, in the <strong>Export format</strong> field, select <strong>Promissory note document</strong>, and then click <strong>Dialog</strong>. In the <strong>Promissory note document</strong> form, in the <strong>From</strong> field, enter the first promissory note number. In the <strong>Number of blank promissory note documents</strong> field, enter the number of blank promissory notes to be generated, and then click <strong>OK</strong>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Where the data in this report comes from

The data on this report comes from the following sources:

  - BankPromissoryNoteTmp\_ES table
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>To find out where the data in the temp table comes from, view the cross-references for the BankPromissoryNoteDP_ES.processReport class.</P>



If you are a developer, you can learn more about where the data on a report comes from by using the following procedure.

1.  Open the AOT.

2.  Locate the report in the **SSRS Reports**\\**Reports** node.

3.  Right-click the report and click **Add-Ins** \> **Cross-reference** \> **Using (instant view)**.

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

