---
title: Explode a sales order line
TOCTitle: Explode a sales order line
ms:assetid: 87122f1e-e9ff-45e1-bb50-aea2a79a0a56
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Aa571582(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36058423
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- master planning explosion
- sales order explosion
- sales order line explosion
---

# Explode a sales order line 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

To explode a sales order line, follow this procedure:

1.  Click **Master planning** \> **Setup** \> **Master planning parameters**. Sales explosions are carried out in the **Current dynamic master plan**. Be sure that a different master plan is specified in the **Current static master plan** and the **Current dynamic master plan** fields.

2.  Click **Sales and marketing** \> **Common** \> **Sales orders** \> **All sales orders**.

3.  Double-click or select a sales order.

4.  Select the sales order line to explode. Click **Product and supply** \> **Requirements** \> **Explosion** to open the **Explosion** form.

5.  Click **Update** to explode the sales order line. In the updated **Explosion** form, you can view order fulfillment information that includes the possible delivery date.

6.  You can perform various functions from the **Explosion** form:
    
      - View and firm the planned orders that are generated by the explosion.
    
      - Click **Transfer futures date** to transfer the futures date that is generated by the explosion to the sales order line.
    
      - View a graphical representation of how the order line will be fulfilled in the **Gantt** chart.
    
      - View any action messages for suggestions about adjusting the current supply plan to fulfill the sales order.

## See also

[Master planning parameters (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa591522\(v=ax.60\))

[Explosion (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa573004\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

