---
title: Introduction to Enterprise Portal
TOCTitle: Introduction to Enterprise Portal
ms:assetid: 881b4af1-3f03-476f-9ec4-47f241a21561
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Hh209335(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36058441
author: tonyafehr
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- port
- browser
- web
- enterprise portal
- self service
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# Introduction to Enterprise Portal 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Microsoft Dynamics AX provides a set of Web sites that you can use to access data. You can also participate in business processes by using Web-based forms. These sites are collectively called Enterprise Portal for Microsoft Dynamics AX.

Enterprise Portal can be configured to display role-specific home pages that are called *Role Centers*. Role Centers provide an overview of information that pertains to a user's job function in the business or organization. This information includes transaction data, alerts, links, and common tasks that are associated with the user's role in the company. Role Centers also include reports that are generated by Microsoft SQL Server Reporting Services or Microsoft SQL Server Analysis Services. Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 includes more than two dozen predefined Role Centers, which users can open from Enterprise Portal or the Microsoft Dynamics AX client.

The topics in this section include information about Enterprise Portal.

[About Enterprise Portal (Enterprise Portal)](about-enterprise-portal-enterprise-portal.md)

[What's new: Enterprise Portal](what-s-new-enterprise-portal.md)

[About Enterprise Portal sites and navigation](about-enterprise-portal-sites-and-navigation.md)

[About Enterprise Portal pages](about-enterprise-portal-pages.md)

[About Enterprise Portal Help](about-enterprise-portal-help.md)

[About Enterprise Portal accessibility](about-enterprise-portal-accessibility.md)

[About Enterprise Portal Browser requirements](about-enterprise-portal-browser-requirements.md)

  


