---
title: 'Key tasks: Create a kanban rule'
TOCTitle: 'Key tasks: Create a kanban rule'
ms:assetid: 774c0011-d9ad-425f-a5a9-1fb22a8a9018
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Hh850371(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 45442190
author: Khairunj
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- events
- configure a kanban rule
- create a kanban rule
- kanban cards
- kanban quantities
- kanban rule
- kanban rule settings
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# Key tasks: Create a kanban rule 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

This topic describes the tasks that you must complete to create and configure a kanban rule that can be used in lean manufacturing production or replenishment activities. The tasks are listed in sequential order.

The kanban framework for lean manufacturing in Microsoft Dynamics AX is based on kanban rules. A kanban rule is a supply policy that defines when kanbans are generated and how they are replenished.

Before you can create and configure a kanban rule, configure the following master data in Microsoft Dynamics AX:

  - Production flows and activities. For more information, see [Key tasks: Set up a production flow](key-tasks-set-up-a-production-flow.md).

  - For kanban rules that have multiple activities, establish activity relations.

  - For manufacturing kanban rules, configure products so that they use standard cost.

  - For kanban rules that replenish product families, configure item allocation keys for items and product dimensions. For more information, see [Item allocation keys (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/aa590322\(v=ax.60\)) and [Item allocation lines (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/aa583062\(v=ax.60\)).

## What do you want to do?

Learn more about...

Create a kanban rule

Define the products that are replenished

Define product quantities and kanban quantities

Configure the use of kanban cards and circulating cards

Configure events

Find form help

## Learn more about...

Click these links to find more information about the concepts that are discussed in this topic.

[About lean manufacturing](about-lean-manufacturing.md)

## Create a kanban rule

Use this procedure to create a kanban rule and define the basic settings for the rule.

1.  Click **Production control** \> **Setup** \> **Lean manufacturing** \> **Kanban rules**.

2.  On the **Action Pane**, on the **Setup** tab, in the **New** group, click **Kanban rule**.

3.  In the **Type** field, select the type of kanban that is generated by the rule. A manufacturing kanban creates a process job. A withdrawal kanban creates a transfer job.

4.  In the **Replenishment strategy** field, select the method that is used to create or generate kanbans for the products that are replenished by the rule. Select one of the following options:
    
      - **Fixed** – You can define and manually create a fixed quantity of kanbans. When a handling unit is emptied for a kanban that has a fixed replenishment strategy, new kanbans are created so that the number of kanbans in the kanban cycle remains constant.
    
      - **Scheduled** – Kanbans are generated during master planning or created manually by the planner, based on actual demand, forecasts, or minimum stock requirements.
    
      - **Event** – Kanbans are generated directly, based on demand.

5.  In the **First plan activity** field, select the first activity for the rule. When kanban jobs are generated, they are based on the settings that are configured for the activity.

6.  For rules of the **Manufacturing** type only, select the **Multiple activities** check box to configure more than one activity. Then, in the **Last plan activity** field, select the last activity. In the **Choose kanban flows** form that opens, select a kanban flow to assign to the rule. For more information, see [Choose kanban flows (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh227439\(v=ax.60\)).

Back to top

## Define the products that are replenished

1.  Click **Production control** \> **Setup** \> **Lean manufacturing** \> **Kanban rules**.

2.  On the **Details** FastTab, in the **Product selection** field group, select one of the following options. The options that are available vary, depending on the replenishment strategy of the rule.
    
      - **Product** – The rule applies to a specific product. If you select this option, you must enter or select a product ID in the **Product** field. Depending on the configuration of the product, you can also select product dimensions.
    
      - **Product family** – The rule applies to a product family. If you select this option, you must enter or select an item allocation key in the **Product family** field.
    
      - **All** – The rule applies to all products.

Back to top

## Define product quantities and kanban quantities

1.  Click **Production control** \> **Setup** \> **Lean manufacturing** \> **Kanban rules**.

2.  On the **Quantities** FastTab, in the **Product quantity** field group, enter the quantities of product to use per kanban. Depending on the replenishment strategy of the rule, you can define default quantities, minimum quantities, and maximum quantities.

3.  To allow the quantity of the finished product to differ from the ordered quantity of the kanban, select the **Product quantity variance** check box. Then, in the **Variance below** and **Variance above** fields, enter the variance quantities that are allowed.

4.  In the **Fixed kanban quantity** field, enter the quantity for kanbans that are required to replenish the forecasted demand during the validity period that is defined by the kanban rule. This field is available only for **Fixed** replenishment strategy rules.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The calculation of quantities for fixed quantity kanbans can be based on either actual demand or historical consumption. For more information, see <A href="https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh527163(v=ax.60)">Kanban quantity calculation policies (form)</A> and <A href="https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh597101(v=ax.60)">Kanban quantity calculation (form)</A>.</P>



5.  In the **Alert boundary minimum** field, enter the minimum number of kanbans that should be planned, in process, or on hand for a kanban rule.

6.  In the **Alert boundary maximum** field, enter the maximum number of kanbans to maintain for a work cell or a supermarket location.

7.  To configure automatic planning, in the **Automatic planning quantity** field, enter the number of unplanned jobs that start the automatic planning process. When the number of unplanned jobs exceeds this number, automatic planning occurs.

8.  In the **Maximum planned jobs** field, enter the maximum number of kanban jobs that can be planned for a specific kanban rule by using automatic planning.

9.  On the **Production flow** FastTab, in the **Register as empty** field, select one of the following options to specify when material handling units are registered as empty:
    
      - **When handling units are received** – When the last job of a kanban is completed, the kanbans are registered as empty. The kanbans are no longer displayed in the overview of kanban quantities.
    
      - **When the source requirement is registered** – When the products that are supplied by event kanbans are consumed by the demand source, the kanbans are registered as empty.
    
      - **Manual (includes scanning empty)** – Manually register the handling units as empty. Select this option if products are stored in supermarkets before they are consumed or shipped.

Back to top

## Configure the use of kanban cards and circulating cards

1.  Click **Production control** \> **Setup** \> **Lean manufacturing** \> **Kanban rules**.

2.  On the **Kanban and cards** FastTab, in the **Card number sequence** field, select the number sequence to use for the kanban cards.

3.  In the **Automatic printing** field, select an option to specify when the kanban cards are automatically printed.

4.  Select the **Circulating cards** check box to use circulating cards. Then, in the **Card assignment** field, select the method that is used to assign the circulating cards.

5.  Select the **Single use kanbans use circulating cards** check box to use circulating cards together with single-use kanbans.

6.  If you are using circulating cards, click **Create cards** to open the **Create circulating cards** form, where you can create and print circulating cards.

Back to top

## Configure events

For kanban rules that use the **Event** method of replenishment, you can configure the settings for events.

1.  Click **Production control** \> **Setup** \> **Lean manufacturing** \> **Kanban rules**.

2.  On the **Events** FastTab, the **Event type** field group displays information about the types of demand that you can configure as events. Select one of the following types:
    
      - **Sales event** – Demand from sales orders is replenished.
    
      - **BOM line event** – Demand from picking lists that are based on production orders is replenished.
    
      - **Kanban line event** – Demand for material that is used in downstream kanban jobs is replenished.
    
      - **Stock replenishment event** – Demand from minimum stock levels is replenished.

3.  For the type of demand that you selected, select the method that defines when kanbans are created from the following options:
    
      - **Not active** – Kanbans are not created. This option is available for all the types of demand.
    
      - **Manual** – Create kanbans manually. This option is available for the **Sales event** and **Kanban line event** types.
    
      - **Batch** – Kanbans are generated when pegging events are processed. This option is available for the **Sales event**, **Kanban line event**, and **Stock replenishment event** types.
    
      - **Automatic** – Kanbans are generated when the demand occurs. This option is available for the **Sales event**, **BOM line event**, and **Kanban line event** types.
    
      - **Automatic with CTP** – Kanbans are created and loaded to the kanban schedule. This option is available only for the **Sales event** type.

4.  In the **Minimum event quantity** field, enter the minimum quantity that is required on the source of demand before event kanbans are generated for this rule.

5.  In the **Event kanban handling unit must be received on** field, select the status of the source of demand that determines when material handling units of the referenced event kanbans must be received.

6.  Select the **Delete unused event kanbans** check box to delete event kanbans that have a handling unit status of **Not assigned** when the source of demand is registered as completed.

7.  Select the **Source requirement reservation** check box to override the current settings for inventory reservation for sales orders and bill of material (BOM) lines. If you select this check box, additional settings are available.

Back to top

## Find form help

[Kanban rules (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh227370\(v=ax.60\))

  


