---
title: Maintain planned orders
TOCTitle: Maintain planned orders
ms:assetid: ad1ae9d7-0fb6-433b-bc33-150050a1a665
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Aa498581(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36058924
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- planned orders
---

# Maintain planned orders 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

You can manage planned orders from the **Planned production orders**, **Planned purchase orders**, and **Planned transfer** forms.

You can use the **Status** field to help track your progress. The following options are available:

  - When master scheduling generates planned orders, the planned orders have a status of **Unprocessed**.

  - When you select not to firm a planned order, you can give it a status of **Completed**.

  - When you firm a planned order, you can give it a status of **Approved**. This indicates that you approve firming the planned order, but it is not firmed yet.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>An approved planned order is transferred in its current state to the next master schedule calculation.</P>



You can firm planned orders by clicking **Firm**. You can firm the following planned orders:

  - The planned order that is selected on the **Overview** tab.

  - Multiple planned orders. Select multiple planned orders to firm.

  - Planned orders that are generated by an explosion from the **Explosion** form. Click **Planned orders**, select the planned order, and then click **Firm**.

When a planned order is firmed, it is moved to the orders section of the relevant module.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>You can right-click a planned order that has a particular status and filter for other planned orders that have the same status. This is useful, for example, if you want to filter for all planned orders that have a status of <STRONG>Approved</STRONG>, and then firm them.</P>



## Analyzing a planned order

When a planned order is exploded, details about the outcome are displayed on the **Explanation** tab in the **Explosion** form. This requires that tracing is enabled. For more information, see [About using tracing for master plans](about-using-tracing-for-master-plans.md).

## See also

[Explosion (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa573004\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

