---
title: Manage alert rules
TOCTitle: Manage alert rules
ms:assetid: e5e032e6-ced4-435f-ba23-937ec8e8b140
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Aa573182(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 46687570
ms.date: 05/02/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Manage alert rules 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

You can manage your alert rules and update details of individual rules in the **Manage alert rules** form. Use one of the following methods to open this form:

  - On the **File** menu, click **Tools**, and then select **Manage alert rules**.

  - Click **Organization administration** \> **Setup** \> **Alerts** \> **Alert rules**.

  - Create an alert rule. When you open the **Create alert rule** form, the **Manage alert rules** form opens in the background. For more information, see [Create alert rules](create-alert-rules.md).

## Enable or disable rules

By default, rules are enabled when you create them. If you disable a rule, no more alerts are triggered by this rule.

To enable or disable an alert rule, select the appropriate rule, and then select or clear the **Enabled** check box.

## Delete rules

Select the rule to delete, and then press ALT+F9. You are asked whether you want to delete the alerts that have been generated by this rule.

## Filter or sort rules

1.  In the **Manage alert rules** form, press CTRL+G.

2.  On the new line, click the filter icon.

3.  Select a sorting criterion.


> [!TIP]
> <P>To remove a filter, click the line that has the filter icon, and then press CTRL+SHIFT+F3.</P>



## Edit rules

In the **Manage alert rules** form, select the alert rule to modify, and then click the **General** tab. You can modify the following information:

  - To turn off the alert rule, clear the **Enabled** check box.

  - To select or change the end date for the alert rule, or to specify that the rule has no end date, modify the selection in the **Alert me until** section.

  - To modify the alert email, change the subject text in the **Subject** field, or change the message in the **Message** field.

  - To change the delivery method for alerts that are generated by the alert rule, select the **Send e-mail** or **Show pop-ups** check box.

  - If the alert rule has an event type of **is due in** or **was due this amount of time ago**, in the field next to the **Event** field, select an option to change the time of the event. For more information, see [Due date-type events](due-date-type-events.md).
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>If you change the due date in an alert rule after you receive an alert that is based on this rule, you are asked whether you want to be alerted about records that you have already been alerted about.</P>



## Example

You have a rule that produces an alert when the delivery date of a specific purchase order is due in 20 days. Therefore, you receive an alert for the purchase order 20 days before the delivery date.

If you then change the rule so that it produces an alert seven days before the delivery date of the purchase order, you are asked whether you want to be alerted again.

## See also

[Create alert rules](create-alert-rules.md)

[About creating alert rules](about-creating-alert-rules.md)

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

