---
title: (MEX) About electronic invoices
TOCTitle: (MEX) About electronic invoices
ms:assetid: 1dc47136-a78a-47fe-8c0e-74c7adec81c8
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh208460(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36056144
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- About
- (MEX)
- electronic invoices
- CFD
- CFDI
- digital tax receipt
---

# (MEX) About electronic invoices 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

An electronic invoice is a legally accepted digital tax receipt that your organization submits to the Servicio de Administración Tributaria (SAT). By using Microsoft Dynamics AX to generate electronic invoices, you help make sure that the electronic invoices that your organization generates are secure, confidential, authentic, and legally acceptable. You can also make sure that international standards are applied to your electronic invoices.

You can generate an electronic invoice for the following documents:

  - Sales order

  - Free text invoice

  - Credit note

  - Return order

  - Project invoice

  - Project sales order

## Methods for generating electronic invoices

You can use the following methods to generate electronic invoices:

  - Comprobantes fiscales digitales (CFD) – Electronic invoices are generated by using Microsoft Dynamics AX. The invoices are then verified and certified by using a government website. Finally, the invoices are submitted to the SAT by your organization.

  - Comprobantes fiscales digitales por internet (CFDI) – Electronic invoices are generated by using Microsoft Dynamics AX. The invoices are then verified and certified by a digital signature service provider (PAC). Finally, the invoices are submitted to the SAT.
    
    Before you can use the CFDI method to generate electronic invoices, your organization must set up a web service connection to an authorized PAC. You send invoices to the PAC. The PAC validates each invoice, assigns a folio number, and then incorporates the digital stamp that is provided by the service tax authorities. After the PAC has validated the invoice, the invoice can be submitted to the SAT.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>For information about how to set up a web connection with a PAC, see “Set up the PAC web service,” later in this document.</P>



## Requirements for using electronic invoices

To use electronic invoices, your organization must complete the following tasks:

  - Obtain authorization from the SAT to use the CFD method.

  - Obtain a Registro Federal del Contribuyentes (RFC) number, a Clave Única de Registro de Población (CURP) number, and a state inscription number from the SAT.

  - Obtain the folio numbers from the Sistema de comprobantes fiscales digitales CFD Plus (SICOFI) program. A folio number is an invoice number that consists of the series, number sequences, and authorization numbers in an invoice.

  - Make sure that .pdf and .xml files meet SAT requirements. These files are sent to a customer as email attachments. The .xml file that is generated must be based on the XML schema definition (XSD) that is provided by the SAT. You must archive the .xml file of each electronic invoice.

  - Generate a monthly report of all the electronic and paper invoices that are generated for the month. The report must use the layout that is specified by the SAT. You can use the SICOFI program to submit this report to the SAT as a .txt file.

## Information that is included in electronic invoices

An electronic invoice includes the following details:

  - The name, address, and tax registration numbers of the organization and customer

  - The invoice number, the date, and the name of the city where the invoice was generated

  - The serial number of the digital certificate, the authorization number, and the year in which the certificate was authorized

  - The description and quantity of each item that is included in the invoice

  - The unit price of each item

  - The amount that was withheld for the Impuesto sobre la renta (ISR) and the value-added tax (VAT) amount

  - The total amount of the invoice transaction

  - The name, number, and date of the customs document that is generated for imported items

  - The registration number of the property if the invoice transaction includes leasing services

  - The digital stamp of the organization

## See also

[(MEX) Define tax registration numbers for a customer account](mex-define-tax-registration-numbers-for-a-customer-account.md)

[(MEX) Define tax registration numbers for a company and a vendor account](mex-define-tax-registration-numbers-for-a-company-and-a-vendor-account.md)

[(MEX) Set up parameters and authorization codes for an electronic invoice](mex-set-up-parameters-and-authorization-codes-for-an-electronic-invoice.md)

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

