---
title: Parameters setup
TOCTitle: Parameters setup
ms:assetid: ff7d08af-92b7-476e-a2aa-ccaeacd8c9dc
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Aa573456(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36931890
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Parameters setup 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Click **Product information management** \> **Setup** \> **Product builder** \> **Product builder parameters**. This topic describes the settings for parameter setup of the Product Builder.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>This information applies only to Product builder.</P>



## The user dialog box link

On the **User dialog box** link, the following parameters can be set:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Action</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Show user dialog box as tree structure</strong></p></td>
<td><p>If this check box is selected, the user dialog box will appear to product model users as a tree structure, with folders and subfolders, instead of as a form with tabs.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Sales price calculation</strong></p></td>
<td><p>If this check box is selected, the item sales price will be calculated as a standard bill of material (BOM) line calculation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Generate documents of type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>In this field, you can select the type of document that should be generated by <strong>Product Builder</strong> to hold configuration details. A configuration details document of the selected type can then be printed on various order forms.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Lookup method</strong></p></td>
<td><p>In this field, you can select from the following options:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Configurable</strong> – When the user selects items in the order or quotation lines, the lookup form is split into two tabs:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Configurable items</strong> – Modeling enabled items only.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>All items</strong>.</p></li>
</ul></li>
<li><p><strong>Default</strong> – The item lookup in order and quotation lines will be shown with all items on one tab.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Generate graphic documents of type</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Select the document type that will be generated for graphics and available for printing from the order and quotation lines.</p>
<div class="alert">

> [!NOTE]
> <P>To use Inbox and Outbox document types, Microsoft Dynamics AX must be synchronized with Microsoft Outlook.</P>


</div></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## The code generator link

On the **Code generator** link, the following parameters can be set:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Action</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Layer</strong></p></td>
<td><p>In this field, the layer in which code will be generated is selected. If the current layer differs from the one selected here, you will not be able to compile the product model.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## The approval link

On the **Approval** link, the following parameters can be set:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Action</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Automatic price calculation</strong></p></td>
<td><p>When this check box is selected, the price calculation will be performed automatically during item configuration, and the price will be displayed in the approval dialog. This parameter is relevant only if you are using the standard BOM price calculation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Automatic calculation of delivery date</strong></p></td>
<td><p>When this check box is selected, the delivery date will be calculated automatically whenever the approval dialog is shown.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Show all variables</strong></p></td>
<td><p>If this check box is selected, any modeling variables that are hidden in the user dialog box will be displayed in the approval dialog.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Reuse configurations</strong></p></td>
<td><p>In this field, you can select from the following options:</p>
<ul>
<li><p><strong>Always</strong> – The system will search for similar, previously configured BOMs and routes whenever an item configuration is performed. If an existing configuration is found, it will be reused for the item that is being configured.</p>
<div class="alert">

> [!NOTE]
> <P>The first found configuration will be reused.</P>


</div></li>
<li><p><strong>Prompt</strong> – The user will be prompted to reuse an existing configuration if it is found.</p></li>
<li><p><strong>Never</strong> – Any existing configurations will be ignored, and a new configuration will be always created for the item being configured.</p></li>
</ul></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## The display link

On the **Display** link, the following parameters can be set:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Action</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>BOM node</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The <strong>BOM node</strong> fields that are selected here will be shown in the modeling tree as a BOM node description.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Route node</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The <strong>Route node</strong> fields that are selected here will be shown in the modeling tree as a route node description.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## The composed of link

On the **Composed of** link, the following parameters can be set:

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Field</p></th>
<th><p>Action</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>BOM lines</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The <strong>BOM node</strong> fields that are selected here will be shown in the <strong>Composed of</strong> report.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Route</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The <strong>Route node</strong> fields that are selected here will be shown in the <strong>Composed of</strong> report.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Operation relation</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>Operation relation</strong> fields that are selected here will be shown in the <strong>Composed of</strong> report.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## See also

[About the product modeling tree](about-the-product-modeling-tree.md)

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

