---
title: (POL) Set up parameters for a Single Administrative Document (SAD)
TOCTitle: (POL) Set up parameters for a Single Administrative Document (SAD)
ms:assetid: 69116d7a-b62c-48c7-ac5e-5431207d07fa
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ731081(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49675321
ms.date: 05/01/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Poland
---

# (POL) Set up parameters for a Single Administrative Document (SAD) 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

This topic describes the setup prerequisites for the Single Administrative Document (SAD). SADs provide European Union (EU) authorities with statistical data on trade between EU member-states and non-EU countries/regions. This statistical data is also referred to as Extrastat.

In Poland, a SAD is required primarily to make sure that the measures set up by the EU authorities are applied.

Before you start to use a SAD and post transactions, you must complete the following tasks:

  - Create a number sequence and specify it for SADs

  - Create main accounts and specify the accounts for SADs

  - Create a duty rate group

  - Create sales tax groups and sales tax codes

## Create a number sequence and specify it for SADs

To generate SAD transactions, you must first create a number sequence and then specify it as a SAD parameter.

1.  Click **Organization administration** \> **Common** \> **Number sequences** \> **Number sequences**.

2.  On the **Action Pane**, click **Number sequence** to create a number sequence. For more information about how to create number sequences, see [Set up number sequences](set-up-number-sequences.md).

3.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Setup** \> **SAD documents** \> **Parameters**.

4.  Click the **Number sequences** tab to specify the number sequence that you created for SADs. For more information, see [(POL) SAD document's parameters (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj728746\(v=ax.60\)).

## Create main accounts and specify them for SADs

To post SAD transactions, you must create main accounts for SADs and for general expenses that are generated by SAD transactions. You can create main accounts for charges and transport expenses that are related to SADs, and for general expenses for transport, insurance, and payments. After you create the main accounts, you must specify them for SADs.

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Common** \> **Main accounts**.

2.  On the **Action Pane**, on the **Main accounts** tab, in the **New** group, click **Main account** to create a main account.
    
    For more information about how to create a main account, see [Create a main account](create-a-main-account.md). For more information about the main accounts to create, see [(POL) SAD document's parameters (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj728746\(v=ax.60\)) and view the descriptions of the fields in the **System accounts of SAD document** and **System account for invoices** field groups on the **General** tab.

3.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Setup** \> **SAD documents** \> **Parameters**.

4.  In the **General** area, select main accounts in the following fields in the **System accounts of SAD document** and **System account for invoices** field groups:
    
      - **Miscellaneous charges from the SAD document**
    
      - **Transport on SAD document**
    
      - **Transport**
    
      - **Insurance**
    
      - **Misc. payments**
    
    For information about these fields, see [(POL) SAD document's parameters (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj728746\(v=ax.60\)).

## Create a duty rate group

To create SADs, you must specify a duty rate group.

1.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Setup** \> **SAD documents** \> **SAD groups**.

2.  Click **New** to create a duty rates group. For more information, see [(POL) Duty rates groups (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj728745\(v=ax.60\)).

## Create sales tax groups and sales tax codes

To calculate sales tax on the SAD transactions, you must create a sales tax group and a sales tax code. The sales tax group and the sales tax code are applied when you post the SAD transactions.

## Create a sales tax group

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Sales tax** \> **Sales tax groups**.

2.  Click **New** to create a sales tax group. For more information, see [Sales tax groups (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa498345\(v=ax.60\)).

## Create a sales tax code

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Sales tax** \> **Sales tax codes**.

2.  Click **New** to create a sales tax code. For more information, see [Sales tax codes (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa553257\(v=ax.60\)).

## See also

[(POL) SAD document's parameters (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj728746\(v=ax.60\))

[(POL) Post a Single Administrative Document (SAD) from the general journal](pol-post-a-single-administrative-document-sad-from-the-general-journal.md)

[(POL) Post a Single Administrative Document (SAD) from the SAD](pol-post-a-single-administrative-document-sad-from-the-sad.md)

  


