---
title: (POL) Create an export file for a vendor
TOCTitle: (POL) Create an export file for a vendor
ms:assetid: 8ab04081-3dde-4545-9064-14074fbd0e0b
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ678280(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49387002
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- export format
---

# (POL) Create an export file for a vendor 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

An export file is an electronic file that is used to transfer payments between your legal entity and another legal entity. You can create an export file for a vendor by using the **Generate payments** form. Before you generate the export file, you must define its format. To support the interchange of electronic data between Microsoft Dynamics AX and the vendor’s bank, this file format must be compatible with the file format of the vendor’s bank. You can use the MultiCash or VideoTel payment export formats to export the electronic payment files that are generated by Microsoft Dynamics AX to the banks.

1.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Journals** \> **Payments** \> **Payment journal**.

2.  Click **New** to create a journal line, or select an existing journal line to generate vendor payments.

3.  Click **Lines**, and then enter the required information in the **Journal voucher** form.

4.  Click **Functions** \> **Generate payments**.

5.  In the **Generate payments** form, select **Export format**.

6.  In the **Export format** field, select the export file format to use for payments. To set up an export format, use the **File formats for methods of payment** form. (Click **Accounts payable** \> **Setup** \> **Payment** \> **Methods of payment**. Select a method of payment. On the **File formats** FastTab, click **Setup**.)

7.  In the **Bank account** field, select the bank account to use for payments.

8.  Click **Dialog**. The form that opens depends on the selection in the **Export format** field.

9.  In the **File name** field, enter the path of the export file, and then click **OK**.

10. In the **Generate payments** form, click **OK** to create the export file.
    
    The status of the export file is displayed in the **Payment status** field in the **Journal voucher** form.

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

