---
title: (RUS) Generate advance report lines using the Copy from expenses function
TOCTitle: (RUS) Generate advance report lines using the Copy from expenses function
ms:assetid: a513b815-c891-4ab1-9519-d92d508bb502
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ678564(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49387792
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# (RUS) Generate advance report lines using the Copy from expenses function [AX 2012]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_


> [!NOTE]
> <P>This topic has not been fully updated for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2.</P>



1.  Click **Accounts payable** \> **Common** \> **Advance holders** \> **Advance reports**.

2.  Press CTRL+N and enter the required details.

3.  In the lower pane, click the **Lines** tab.

4.  Enter the required details.

5.  Click **Functions**, and select **Copy from expends**.

6.  Select an expense line.

7.  In the **Date** field, enter the date of the transaction.

8.  In the **Document number** field, enter the number of the confirmed disbursement voucher.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The entries in the <STRONG>Document name</STRONG>, <STRONG>Rate</STRONG>, and <STRONG>Currency</STRONG> fields are automatically displayed from the expense rate Help book.</P>



9.  In the **Quantity of days** field, enter the number of days of the business trip.

10. In the **To weekday** field, enter the daily expense amount.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The <STRONG>Total amount</STRONG> field displays the total expense amount. The <STRONG>Rate</STRONG> and <STRONG>Over rate</STRONG> fields display information about the expense type.</P>



11. Click **Save** to transfer the entries from the **Create lines** form to the **Advance report** form.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The entry in the <STRONG>Ledger account</STRONG> field is displayed according to the expense rate posting setup. If the actual expense is more than the established rates, then a supplementary line for the excess amount is created when the expenses are transferred to the advance report. In this situation, the <STRONG>Over rate</STRONG> check box is selected automatically. The <STRONG>Line type</STRONG> field of the advance report that is generated by using the <STRONG>Copy from expends</STRONG> function displays the value <STRONG>Expense</STRONG>.</P>



12. Click **Post** to post the report.

13. Press CTRL+S or close the form.

## See also

[(RUS) Generate an expense account line using the Copy from sources function](rus-generate-an-expense-account-line-using-the-copy-from-sources-function.md)

[(RUS) Generate and post a facture for an advance report](rus-generate-and-post-a-facture-for-an-advance-report.md)

[(RUS) Generate and post advance report lines manually](rus-generate-and-post-advance-report-lines-manually.md)

[(RUS) Advance reports (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733237\(v=ax.60\))

[(RUS) Create lines (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj733412\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

