---
title: (RUS) Reverse a receipt transaction
TOCTitle: (RUS) Reverse a receipt transaction
ms:assetid: 3129b911-eac3-40da-87e0-38577f18c051
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ665254(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49387344
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Reverse
- receipt
- (RUS)
- Russia
---

# (RUS) Reverse a receipt transaction 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

Use the **Reverse transaction** form to reverse a receipt transaction that was manually created for a deferral. Receipt transactions that are generated by using the periodic process can be reversed. However, the other general ledger transactions that are created during the periodic process must be manually reversed in the general ledger journal.

Deferrals that are created after the fixed asset is disposed of are reversed when the fixed asset transaction is reversed.

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Common** \> **Deferrals**.

2.  Select a deferral ID, and then click **Deferrals models** to open the **Deferrals models** form.

3.  Select a deferrals model, and then click **Transactions** to open the **Deferrals transactions** form.

4.  Select the receipt transaction to reverse, and then click **Reverse transaction** to open the **Reverse transaction** form.

5.  In the **Date of storno** field, select the reversal date. All transactions that are created on this date are reversed.

6.  Select the **By all models** check box to indicate that transactions that are created by using both the tax value model and base value model are reversed.

7.  Click **OK** to reverse the transaction.

## See also

[(RUS) Deferrals models (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj678655\(v=ax.60\))

[(RUS) Deferrals transactions (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj678472\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

