---
title: (RUS) Set up a sales register for fixed assets and intangible assets
TOCTitle: (RUS) Set up a sales register for fixed assets and intangible assets
ms:assetid: 44ea0eac-f938-4032-a0c1-0f902f9cf33f
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ665329(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 49387419
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Russia
---

# (RUS) Set up a sales register for fixed assets and intangible assets 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

The **FA/IA sale** register consolidates information about asset sales operations and calculates losses disposal of depreciable property and intangible assets that are recognized as deferrals for tax purposes.

Records are created in the register with an accumulating total. The records take into account the finalization of sales operations for each item of depreciated property. Reporting data is generated by totaling the indicators from the beginning of the tax period to the reporting date.

The **FA/IA sale** register is calculated on the basis of data from the following registers:


> [!NOTE]
> <P>This topic has not been fully updated for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2.</P>



  - FA - object information register

  - IA - object information register

  - Property disposal register

<!-- end list -->

1.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Profit tax** \> **Registers**.

2.  Press CTRL+N to create a new line.

3.  In the **Register type** field, select **FA/IA sale**.

4.  In the **Register code** field, enter an identification code for the register.

5.  In the **Register name** field, modify the name of the register, if necessary.

6.  In the **Period type** field, select the type of time period for which the register is created.

7.  Click the **Hide** tab, and move any fields that you want to hide in the register from **Available fields** to **Selected fields**.

8.  In **Selected fields**, select the check box for the register fields to be hidden.

9.  Click **General ledger** \> **Setup** \> **Profit tax** \> **Register parameters** to set up additional parameters for the register.

10. In the **Register name** field, select **FA/IA sale**.

11. In the **Parameter name**, specify the parameter.

12. In the **Value** field, select the fixed asset or intangible asset group by the tax account type and asset type that are to be used to create the register. If you specify more than one value, separate the values with commas.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>If you do not specify parameter values, the register will contain all fixed assets and intangible assets.</P>



13. Press CTRL+S or close the form.

## See also

[(RUS) Tax registers (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj853195\(v=ax.60\))

[(RUS) Calculate the fixed asset and intangible asset sale register](rus-calculate-the-fixed-asset-and-intangible-asset-sale-register.md)

  


