---
title: (RUS) Generate a write-off transaction and print the NVFA statement of disposal (No. MB-4) from the fixed asset journal
TOCTitle: (RUS) Generate a write-off transaction and print the NVFA statement of disposal (No. MB-4) from the fixed asset journal
ms:assetid: e4b50246-41af-4409-af15-43daed730dd2
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/JJ923602(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 52075444
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- write-off
- Russia
- special rigging
- working clothes
---

# (RUS) Generate a write-off transaction and print the NVFA statement of disposal (No. MB-4) from the fixed asset journal 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

You can generate and print the **NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4)** report from the fixed asset journal after you enter transactions of the **Disposal (sale)** and **Writing-off** types. For transactions that have a status of **Written off** or **Written off (sale)**, the report can also be printed from the **Working clothes**, **Special rigging**, and **Not valuable FAs** forms. This report is generated by each department that uses working clothes, special rigging, and not valuable fixed assets (NVFAs).


> [!NOTE]
> <P>You can generate the report from the <STRONG>Working clothes</STRONG>, <STRONG>Special rigging</STRONG>, and <STRONG>Not valuable FAs</STRONG> forms only after you generate the report from the fixed asset journal.</P>



1.  Click **Fixed assets (Russia)** \> **Journals** \> **FA journal**.

2.  Create a new journal.

3.  In the **Name** field, select the journal name.

4.  Click **Lines** to open the **Journal voucher** form.

5.  Press CTRL+N to open the **Add to journal** form.

6.  In the **Transaction date** field, select the transaction date.

7.  In the **Transaction type** field, select **Writing off** or **Disposal (sale)** as the transaction type.

8.  In the **FA inventory number** field, select the inventory number for the fixed asset.

9.  In the **Value model** field, select the value model for the fixed asset.

10. In the **Reason code** field, select a reason code for the transaction.

11. In the **Reason comment** field, enter a comment or a description of the transaction.

12. Click **OK**. The write-off lines for all value models that are registered in the fixed assets account are created in the journal.

13. For group operations, click **Group operations** \> **Writing off** to create write-off transactions.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>You can also select <STRONG>Disposal</STRONG>.</P>



14. In the **Disposal date** field, select the date of the disposal transaction.

15. Click **Select** to open the **Inquiry** form and specify the criteria for the report.

16. Click **OK** to close the **Inquiry** form.

17. In the **Writing-off** form, click **OK**. Write-off transactions are created in the journal for all value models.

18. Click **Validate** \> **Validate** to validate the write-off transactions.

19. Click **Post** \> **Post** to post the transaction.

20. Close the form.

21. In the **FA journal** form, click **Print** \> **NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4)** to open the **NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4)** form.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>The <STRONG>Print</STRONG> button is available only for journals that have been posted. The written-off transaction that is created in the <STRONG>Journal voucher</STRONG> form is displayed on the <STRONG>Overview</STRONG> tab. This transaction has a document number that is generated based on the number sequence that is set up in the <STRONG>Fixed asset parameters</STRONG> form.</P>



22. In the **Comment** field, enter the reason for disposal.

23. On the **Rows** tab, you can view the document number, fixed asset number, and the value model code.

24. Click **OK** to generate the **NVFA Statement of disposal (No. MB-4)** report.

## See also

[(RUS) Journal voucher (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj923409\(v=ax.60\))

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

