---
title: Sequence planned batch orders
TOCTitle: Sequence planned batch orders
ms:assetid: 988986c1-28f5-4777-9010-45b9656e8a45
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/JJ838744(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 50120627
author: Khairunj
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# Sequence planned batch orders 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2_

Use this procedure to run the sequencing operations that sequence planned batch orders that were already generated by master scheduling. You can run the sequencing operation for a master plan if the **Sequencing active** check box is not selected on the **Sequencing** FastTab in the **Master plans** form. You can run the sequencing operation after the plan and planned orders are generated.

1.  Click **Master planning** \> **Periodic** \> **Sequencing** \> **Sequencing generation**.

2.  In the **Plan** field, select the identification code of a plan for which to run sequencing operations.

3.  Click **OK** to run the sequencing operation.

You can view the result of the sequencing operation on the **Sequenced planned orders** list page. You can view the sequence start date and time for the sequenced planned order. You can select the sequenced planned orders, and then accept or reject them. When you accept a sequenced planned order, the planned batch orders are updated on the **Planned orders** list page with the sequencing date and time. You can then select these planned batch orders on the **Planned orders** list page, and then click **Firm** to commit the orders to production.

You can also select the sequenced planned orders on the **Sequenced planned orders** list page, and then click **Accept and firm** to commit the orders directly to production.

## See also

[Sequenced planned orders (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/jj838772\(v=ax.60\))

[(PM) Planned orders (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/library/hh328645\(v=ax.60\))

  


