---
title: Set up number sequences for Human resources
TOCTitle: Set up number sequences for Human resources
ms:assetid: 8c083f02-3c79-401f-8835-7f2dab6c0588
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/library/Hh209346(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36058475
author: tonyafehr
ms.date: 04/18/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Absence registration numbers
- Autogenerated numbers
- auto generated numbers
- Agenda ID numbers
- Application ID numbers
- HR number sequences
- I-9 Document numbers
- Discussion ID numbers
- Course ID numbers
- Set up sequential numbers in HR
- Human resources number sequences
audience: Application User
ms.search.region: Global
---

# Set up number sequences for Human resources 


[!INCLUDE[archive-banner](includes/archive-banner.md)]


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

Number sequences are used throughout Microsoft Dynamics AX to allocate ID numbers or identifiers for entities. Before you can assign a number sequence to a Human resources reference, you must set up number sequences codes in the **Number sequences** list page. For more information, see [Set up number sequences](set-up-number-sequences.md).

## Assign shared number sequences

Some Human resources entities, such as positions, discussions, personnel numbers, and applicants, are shared across legal entities. For example, the number sequence code ABC-001 is assigned to the **Personnel number** reference. The first three new workers that are hired in Legal entity A have personnel numbers ABC-001, ABC-002, and ABC-003. When two new workers are hired in Legal entity B, they will have personnel numbers ABC-004 and ABC-005.

Complete this procedure to assign number sequences to shared Human resources entities.

1.  Click **Human resources** \> **Setup** \> **Parameters** \> **Human resources shared parameters**.

2.  Click **Number sequences**.

3.  In the **Number sequence code** field, select a number sequence code for each reference.


> [!NOTE]
> <P>If a number sequence that you need is not listed, use the <STRONG>Number sequences</STRONG> form to create it.</P>



## Assign company-specific number sequences

Some Human resources entities, such as applications, absence registrations, courses, agendas, events, and case numbers are not shared across legal entities, but are specific to one legal entity. For example, the number sequence code ABC-001 is assigned to the **Course ID** reference for Legal entity A. The first three courses that are created in Legal entity A have course IDs ABC-001, ABC-002, and ABC-003. The number sequence code ABC-001 is also assigned to the **Course ID** reference for Legal entity B. The first three courses that are created in Legal Entity B have course IDs ABC-001, ABC-002, and ABC-003.

1.  Log on to the legal entity to set up number sequences for.

2.  Click **Human resources** \> **Setup** \> **Parameters** \> **Human resources parameters**.

3.  Click **Number sequences**.

4.  In the **Number sequence code** field, select a number sequence code for each reference.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>If a number sequence that you need is not listed, use the <STRONG>Number sequences</STRONG> form to create it.</P>



5.  Repeat this procedure for each legal entity.

  


