---
title: (SWE) Set up parameters for a control unit in Microsoft Dynamics AX for Retail POS
TOCTitle: (SWE) Set up parameters for a control unit in Microsoft Dynamics AX for Retail POS
ms:assetid: a1d8ca52-7052-4d19-b8f8-842e7882d3a8
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Dn857499(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 63396901
ms.date: 12/12/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
f1_keywords:
- Forms.RetailHardwareProfile
- Forms.RetailFunctionalityProfile
- Forms.RetailFormLayout
- Forms.RetailStoresToDeploy
- control unit
- control unit code
- control unit serial number
- Forms.RetailFiscalPrinterConfigTable
- initialize number sequence
---

# (SWE) Set up parameters for a control unit in Microsoft Dynamics AX for Retail POS 


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3_

This topic explains how to set up the parameters that are required for a control unit to register transactions that are completed by a cash register. A control unit is a device that processes data from receipts that are generated by a cash register. The control unit produces a digital signature called the control code that is used to validate the integrity of the receipt data. You can store the receipt information in the control unit and print the receipts at the retail point of sale (POS).


> [!NOTE]
> <P>Customer order operations, customer account deposits, customer account payment, and income/expense account operations are currently not supported by control unit integration.</P>



## Prerequisites

The following table shows the prerequisites that must be in place before you start.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Category</p></th>
<th><p>Prerequisite</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Version</p></td>
<td><p>Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3 with cumulative update 8 (CU8)</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Country/region</p></td>
<td><p>The primary address for the legal entity must be in the following countries/regions: Sweden</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Related setup task</p></td>
<td><p>Set up a retail store in the <strong>Stores</strong> form. For more information, see <a href="set-up-a-retail-store.md">Set up a retail store</a>.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## 1\. Set up a functionality profile and assign it to a store

To set up a functionality profile, and then assign it to a store, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Retail** \> **Setup** \> **POS** \> **Profiles** \> **Functionality profiles**.

2.  Create a new functionality profile or select an existing functionality profile. For more information, see “Set up functionality profiles” in [Set up and assign functionality profiles](set-up-and-assign-functionality-profiles.md) and [POS functionality profile (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh597181\(v=ax.60\)).

3.  On the **General** FastTab, in the **ISO** field, select the ISO code for Sweden.

4.  On the **Receipt numbering** FastTab, click **Add** to add new number sequences for the **Training sale** receipt transaction type.

5.  Select the **Independent sequence** check box to increment the receipt numbers for the transaction type independent of the other transaction types.

6.  Assign the functionality profile to a store in the **Retail stores** form. For more information, see “Assign a functionality profile to a store” in [Set up and assign functionality profiles](set-up-and-assign-functionality-profiles.md).

## 2\. Create a configuration for a control unit

To create a configuration and import the configuration file for a control unit, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Retail** \> **Setup** \> **POS** \> **Profiles** \> **Fiscal register configurations**.

2.  Click **New** to create a new fiscal register configuration for a control unit.

3.  Click **Import** and specify the filename and path of the configuration file that you want to import for the control unit.

4.  Optional: Click **Export** to export a configuration file for an existing configuration. This file can then be modified and imported for a new configuration. You can also click **Export sample configuration** to export the sample configuration file, which can be used as a reference when creating a new configuration file.

## 3\. Set up a hardware profile for the control unit

To set up a hardware profile for the control unit and then assign it to a POS register, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Retail** \> **Setup** \> **POS** \> **Profiles** \> **Hardware profiles**.

2.  Click **New** to create a new hardware profile. For more information, see [Set up hardware profiles](set-up-hardware-profiles.md).

3.  On the **Control unit** FastTab, in the **Control unit** field, select **Third-party driver** as the type of driver that is used for the control unit.

4.  In the **Device name** and **Description** fields, specify the name and description for the control unit.

5.  In the **Configuration** field, select the identifier for the configuration that is used by the control unit.

6.  Assign the hardware profile to a POS register using the **POS registers** form. For more information, see “Assign a hardware profile to a register” in [Set up hardware profiles](set-up-hardware-profiles.md).

## 4\. Set up receipt formats

Use **Receipt formats** form to set up the receipt formats for the printer at the POS. The receipt format includes the control code and the control unit serial number. The control unit generates a control code only if the receipt type is **Normal** or **Copy**.

1.  Click **Retail** \> **Setup** \> **POS** \> **Receipt formats**.

2.  Click **New** to create a receipt format or select an existing receipt format from the left pane. Specify the parameters to set up the receipt format. For more information, see [Set up receipt formats](set-up-receipt-formats.md) and [Receipt formats (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/hh597228\(v=ax.60\)).

3.  Click **Designer** to open the **Receipt format designer** form.

4.  In the header and footer sections, you can set up new tags for **Control code** and **Control unit serial number**.
    

    > [!NOTE]
    > <P>It is recommended to add the <STRONG>Control unit serial number</STRONG> tag in the receipt header, as the details in the footer section are not printed for training receipts.</P>



5.  Add a tag for **Reprint message** and set the font size to **Large**. When the receipt copy is printed in POS, it displays the word **Copy** in the specified font size.

## 5\. If required: Set up number sequences for training transaction receipts

To initialize number sequences for the cash register’s transactions, follow these steps:

1.  Click **Retail** \> **Periodic** \> **Retail POS redeployment**.

2.  Click **New** to create a new record for the store and register. For more information, see [Retail POS redeployment (form)](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/jj735277\(v=ax.60\)).

3.  Click **Edit POS counters**, and then modify the value in the **Receipt for training sale**, if required. You can also initialize the amount counters for **Grand sales** and **Grand return** fields on the **POS amount counter details** FastTab.

## Next step

(SWE) Print an electronic journal

## Related tasks

Print an X report

Reprint a Z report

## Technical information for system administrators

If you don't have access to the pages that are used to complete this task, contact your system administrator and provide the information that is shown in the following table.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Category</p></th>
<th><p>Prerequisite</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Security roles</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>Retail operations manager</strong></p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Developer information

[Microsoft Dynamics AX Retail POS Fiscal Register Integration Developer Guide - Sweden](https://mbs.microsoft.com/customersource/global/ax/learning/documentation/white-papers/msdaxretailposfiscalregisterdevsweden)

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

