---
title: 'Windows Logo Certification for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Setup '
TOCTitle: 'Windows Logo Certification for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Setup '
ms:assetid: 2de0535e-7f26-4fa7-a2e4-5417bd4a7f13
ms:mtpsurl: https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/Hh378079(v=AX.60)
ms:contentKeyID: 36870662
ms.date: 05/01/2014
mtps_version: v=AX.60
---

# Windows Logo Certification for Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Setup


_**Applies To:** Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R3, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 R2, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Feature Pack, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012_

This topic provides information for the Windows Server Logo certification for the Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 installer.

## Application Verifier Stop Codes

As documented in the Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Installation Guide, only elevated administrators may run Setup. Because the Setup and Microsoft Installer processes are running as administrators, several 331B stop codes are generated. Since Setup cannot be run as a standard, untrusted user, these errors can safely be ignored.

## Valid File Versions

All files that are delivered with Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 have valid file version information, with the following exceptions.

## Interop Files

These files are generated for interop, and necessarily do not have file version information.

  - Interop.NetFwTypeLib.dll

  - Interop.WUApiLib.dll

  - Interop.COMAdmin.dll

  - AxInterop.WMPLib.dll

## Third-Party Files

The following files are generated by SQL Server Reporting Services and are not controlled by Microsoft Dynamics AX.

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%SQLINSTANCE%\\ReportingServices\\ReportManager\\Bin\\ReportingServicesCDOInterop.dll

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%SQLINSTANCE\\Reporting Services\\ReportServer\\bin\\ReportingServicesCDOInterop.dll

  - c:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\\common7\\IDE\\PrivateAssemblies\\WMPLib.dll

  - c:\\Program Files (x86)\\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\\common7\\Tools\\Deployment\\VsdProjects\\vsibinver.dll

## Generated Files

These files are not installed by Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 Setup. Rather, during its normal operation, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 generates files in the following locations:

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Dynamics AX\\60\\Server\\%AXINSTANCENAME%\\bin\\XppIL\\

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%INSTANCENAME%\\Reporting Services\\bin

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%INSTANCENAME%\\Reporting Services\\RSTempFiles\\

These files are generated directly from the Microsoft Dynamics AX layered application metadata. This metadata can be customized by third-party vendors, ISVs, and customers. Because of this, these files can be regenerated at any time. It would be technically and legally incorrect for Microsoft to version these files.

## Executable files requiring elevation

It is normal for the following executable files in Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 to request UAC elevation:

  - AxSearchSetup.exe – This executable configures the Windows Search Service and Windows Search Server for use with Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012, which requires elevated administrative privileges.

  - AxUpdatePortal.exe – This executable configures SharePoint for use with Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012, which requires elevated administrative privileges.

  - Microsoft.Dynamics.AX.Tracing.TraceParser.exe - Trace Parser is a developer tool that creates new SQL Server databases for analyzing Microsoft Dynamics AX traces, requiring full permissions on the databases that it operates on. The most common user scenario is that developers connect the Trace Parser to their local SQL server instances, requiring administrative privileges.

## Files without valid file signatures

All files that are delivered with Microsoft Dynamics AX have valid file signatures. However, during its normal operation, Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012 generates files in the following locations that are not signed.

## Generated files

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Dynamics AX\\60\\Server\\%AXINSTANCENAME%\\bin\\XppIL\\

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%INSTANCENAME%\\Reporting Services\\bin

  - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\%INSTANCENAME%\\Reporting Services\\RSTempFiles\\

These files are generated directly from the Microsoft Dynamics AX layered application metadata. This metadata can be customized by third-party vendors, ISVs, and customers. Because of this, these files can be regenerated at any time. It would be technically and legally incorrect to sign these files, as they are not fully owned by Microsoft.

## Third-Party Files

  - %Program Files (x86) %\\Microsoft Visual Studio 10.0\\Common7\\IDE\\PublicAssemblies\\

## Custom Actions performed during Setup

During the installation of Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012, several .msi files perform custom actions.

## Custom actions not owned by Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012

The following .msi files, though redistributed by Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012, are not part of the product, and should be ignored. Custom actions for these .msi files should have been documented by the teams producing the redistributables.

  - OpenXMLSDKTool.msi

  - OpenXMLSDKv2.msi

  - sqlncli.msi

  - sqlncli\_X64.msi

  - SQLSERVER2008\_ASADOMD10.msi

## Custom actions owned by Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012

The following custom actions are performed in .msi files owned by Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012. Note that some custom actions are included by default in the WiX framework. Documentation for this framework can be found at <http://wix.sourceforge.net/>.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col style="width: 50%" />
<col style="width: 50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><p>Custom Action</p></th>
<th><p>Description</p></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Action</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property to be displayed as the product name for the AOS instance being installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>AdminToolsFolder.052D7C89_0054_4278_B7E8_6D75D938BD4A</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Administrative Tools folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>AdminToolsFolder.9CBDB02C_0A2D_4126_8094_94DF940C3526</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Administrative Tools folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>AdminToolsFolder.EF6A46D7_CAC4_4663_A18B_19AD854FD2C1</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Administrative Tools folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>AifWebServices.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Web Services on IIS component.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>AifWebServices.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Web Services on IIS component is to be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the AOS.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the AOS is to be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the AOS installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the AOS installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the AOS.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Aos.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the AOS is to be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_BeginHelpTransaction.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_CommitHelpTransaction.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_CommitHelpTransactionNoRB.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_DummyForHXDS_DLL.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_ExportTempHxDs.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_ExtHelpPlugin.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8.48273237_1399_45CF_801C_338E1AB00E90</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_RegisterFilter.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_RegisterHelpFile.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_RegisterMicrosoftHelp.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_RegisterNamespace.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_RegisterPlugIn.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_RemoveHelpFile.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_RemoveNamespace.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_RemoveTempHxDs.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_RollbackHelpTransaction.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_RollbackTempHxDs.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CA_ScheduleExtHelpPlugin_VSCC_VSIPCC.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8.48273237_1399_45CF_801C_338E1AB00E90</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CA_UnRegisterMicrosoftHelp.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Used in the installation of .hsx help files.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Client.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the client is to be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the client installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the client installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the client.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ClientUI.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the client is to be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CommonFilesFolder.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates where files common to several Microsoft Dynamics AX components should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>CommonFilesFolder_x86.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8.48273237_1399_45CF_801C_338E1AB00E90</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates where 32-bit files common to several Microsoft Dynamics AX components should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>CustomAction_CheckFX</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Creates the VSDFxConfigFile in the .msi database for use by other custom actions.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Debugger.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the debugger installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Debugger.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the debugger installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Debugger.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the debugger.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Debugger.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the debugger is to be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>DesktopFolder.1E83C0F5_4C97_4752_B060_6F2D1FA34044</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Desktop.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>EnterprisePortal.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls Enterprise Portal.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>EnterprisePortal.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Enterprise Portal should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>EnterprisePortalTools.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs Enterprise Portal tools. This action is run as part of the Visual Studio Tools installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>EnterprisePortalTools.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls Enterprise Portal tools. This action is run during the Visual Studio Tools uninstallation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>EPSearch.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the installation of Enterprise Search.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>EPSearch.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Enterprise Search installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>EPSearch.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls Enterprise Search.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>EPSearch.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that Enterprise Search should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Help Server.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Help Server should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the Help Server installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Help Server installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Help Server.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>HelpServer.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Help Server should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the .NET Business Connector.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the .NET Business Connector should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the .NET Business Connector Installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the .NET Business Connector installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the .NET Business Connector.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>NetBusinessConnector.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the .NET Business Connector should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetFxExecuteNativeImageCommitInstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>NetFxExecuteNativeImageCommitUninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetFxExecuteNativeImageInstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>NetFxExecuteNativeImageUninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>NetFxScheduleNativeImage</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Office Add-ins.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Office Add-ins should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the installation of the Office Add-ins.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Office Add-ins installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Office Add-ins.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>OfficeAddins.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Office Add-ins should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ProgramFilesFolder.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Program Files directory.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ProgramFilesFolder.6763863D_1615_4996_BB2C_C900A105BB9A</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Program Files directory.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ProgramFilesFolder_x86.3643236F_FC70_11D3_A536_0090278A1BB8.48273237_1399_45CF_801C_338E1AB00E90</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Program Files directory.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ProgramMenuFolder.1E83C0F5_4C97_4752_B060_6F2D1FA34044</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Programs menu.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ProgramMenuFolder.EF6A46D7_CAC4_4663_A18B_19AD854FD2C1</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Programs menu.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Remote Desktop Services Integration.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Remote Desktop Services Integration should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the installation of the Remote Desktop Services Integration.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Remote Desktop Services Integration installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Remote Desktop Services Integration.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>RemoteDesktopServicesIntegration.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Remote Desktop Services Integration should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ReportingServicesExtensions.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Reporting Services Extensions.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ReportingServicesExtensions.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Reporting Services Extensions should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>ReportingTools.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Reporting tools. This action is run as part of the Visual Studio Tools installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>ReportingTools.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Reporting Tools. This action is run as part of the Visual Studio Tools uninstallation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>Set_InstallDir</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates where 64-bit components should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>Set_ServerDir</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates where the Application Object Server instance is installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetAOSLocalizedDescFromDefault</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the localized description of the Application Object Server instance in the service control manager to the default value.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SetAOSLocalizedDescFromReg</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the localized description of the Application Object Server instance in the service control manager to the value stored in the registry.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetARPINSTALLLOCATION</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that is used to set the installation location in the registry.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SetCONFIGURATIONFILE</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the client configuration file to use.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetDatabaseServerName</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Microsoft Dynamics AX database specified during installation.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SetDir_UserDataFolder_PreVista</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the directory where the client log file is stored in pre-Windows Vista environments.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetDir_UserDataFolder_Vista</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets the directory where the client log file is stored on Vista and later.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SetDIR_VS_ENVIRONMENT</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Visual Studio environment.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetINSTALLDIR32</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location where 32-bit components should be installed. This custom action is invoked when users execute the ClientOba .msi files directly, without going through Setup.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SetINSTALLFOLDER32</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location where 32-bit components should be installed. This custom action is invoked by AxSetup.exe.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SetInstanceNumberForMMFile</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the number of the AOS instance being installed or uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>StartMenuFolder.1E83C0F5_4C97_4752_B060_6F2D1FA34044</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Start Menu.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>StartMenuFolder.EF6A46D7_CAC4_4663_A18B_19AD854FD2C1</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Start Menu.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Synchronization proxy.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization proxy should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the installation of the Synchronization proxy.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization proxy installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Synchronization proxy.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationProxy.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization proxy should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Install</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Installs the Synchronization service.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Install.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization service should be installed.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Rollback</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Rolls back the installation of the Synchronization service.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Rollback.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization service installation should be rolled back.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Uninstall</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Uninstalls the Synchronization service.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>SynchronizationService.Uninstall.SetProperty</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates that the Synchronization service should be uninstalled.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>SystemFolder.21A7FEFC_745A_4444_9831_D386BBBE124D</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the System folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WindowsFolder.1E83C0F5_4C97_4752_B060_6F2D1FA34044</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Windows folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WindowsFolder.21A7FEFC_745A_4444_9831_D386BBBE124D</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Windows folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WindowsFolder.EF6A46D7_CAC4_4663_A18B_19AD854FD2C1</strong></p></td>
<td><p>Sets a property on the .msi that indicates the location of the Windows folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WixUIPrintEula</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WixUIValidatePath</strong></p></td>
<td><p>This function is used by the WiX framework.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>


## Artifacts remaining after uninstallation

The following artifacts are not removed when Microsoft Dynamics AX is uninstalled.

## Files and Folders

  - %INETPUB%\\wwwroot\\wss\\VirtualDirectories\\80\\App\_Code
    
    Items in this folder are from ASP.NET. However, other applications may have dependencies on files in the app\_code folders. If this were the case, deleting this folder with Microsoft Dynamics AX would break other functionality.

  - %INETPUB%\\wwwroot\\wss\\VirtualDirectories\\80\\App\_Code\\Proxies
    
    The Proxies folder is created by Enterprise Portal but left after uninstallation, because it could be used by other pages that get data from Microsoft Dynamics AX. Removing this folder would also require modifying the web.config file, which is against generally accepted uninstallation practices. It is not possible to differentiate between changes to the web.config file performed by Setup and those performed by an administrator. Were Setup to remove this folder, it could break web configurations not related to Microsoft Dynamics AX.

  - Setup logs - We do not remove the Setup logs as these may be needed for system diagnostic purposes. If desired, these folders may be deleted manually.
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Dynamics AX
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Dynamics AX\\60
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Dynamics AX\\60\\Setup Logs

  - SharePoint and Enterprise Search files – These files are not directly created by Microsoft Dynamics AX.
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Office Servers
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft Office Servers\\14.0\\Data\\Applications\\

  - SQL Server Reporting Services generated content - Some of this content may be user-generated.
    
      - %PROGRAMFILES%\\Microsoft SQL Server\\MSRS10\_50.MSSQLSERVER\\Reporting Services

## Registry entries

A number of registry keys may be left over following the uninstallation of Microsoft Dynamics AX 2012.

1.  Client Registry keys – The Microsoft Dynamics AX Client creates a number of registry keys in the following nodes. These registry keys are used by the Client.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Classes\\
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Wow6432Node\\Classes

2.  Outlook Integration keys - Keys in this registry hive are used for integration with Microsoft Outlook.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\COM3\\SelfReg\\CLSID
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Wow6432Node\\Microsoft\\COM3\\SelfReg\\CLSID

3.  Setup registry keys - This registry hive tracks the location where Microsoft Dynamics AX components are installed, which can be used by component .msi files. Because Setup can be uninstalled before other components, this information persists outside Setup.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Dynamics\\6.0\\Setup
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Wow6432Node\\Microsoft\\Dynamics\\6.0\\Setup

4.  SharePoint keys - Keys in this registry hive are automatically generated by SharePoint Server and cannot be controlled by Microsoft Dynamics AX.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\OfficeServer

5.  Windows Event Tracing keys - These registry keys are generated by Crimson tracing registration, and are needed after uninstallation to view tracing events.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion

6.  Windows Installer keys - Keys in this registry hive are maintained by Windows Installer and cannot be controlled by Microsoft Dynamics AX.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SOFTWARE\\Microsoft\\Windows\\CurrentVersion\\Installer\\Folders

7.  Control set keys - These registry hives contain information about the current and last-known good control sets for Windows. They should be automatically cleaned up when the system is restarted.
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SYSTEM\\ControlSet001\\services\\LanmanServer\\Shares
    
      - HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\services\\LanmanServer\\Shares

  
**Announcements:** To see known issues and recent fixes, use [Issue search](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=389258) in [Microsoft Dynamics Lifecycle Services](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=306505) (LCS).

